7/4/24, 10:58 AM

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Westpac

Logout

# Home

# View Westpac Consumer Mortgages OBP Credit Policies

# Contact Us

03.04 Security Collateral Value Assessment

This policy contains commercially sensitive and confidential information. No part should be made available in any form whether printed, electronic or otherwise, outside the Westpac Group without approval from Westpac Legal or Regulatory affairs. This document is an UNCONTROLLED copy and is subject to change without prior notification. It is only valid at the date of extract.

# Table of Contents

1. About pis policy
1.1 Why pis policy
1.2 Security collateral value - Market Value
1.3 What are acceptable real estate valuation mepods?
2. Rules you must apply
2.1 Customer estimated market value
2.2 Assessing security collateral value using valuation report
2.3 Requesting a Valuation Report
2.4 Ownership of Valuation Report
2.5 Risk Ratings and reading valuation Reports
2.6 More pan one market value
2.7 Contract of Sales (Purchase Price)
2.7.1 Requirements to obtain a COS
2.7.2 Review of COS
2.7.3 Minimum criteria to be obtained from pe Contract of Sale
2.8 Chattels, Rebates and Incentives
2.8.1 Chattels
2.9 Contract Verification Service (CVS)
2.9.1 CVS Validation
2.10 Automated Valuation Model (AVM)
2.11 Valuation amount lower pan purchase price
2.12 Re-using an Existing Valuation
2.13 Postcode Categories
2.13.1 Postcode Category by States / Territory
2.13.2 Disaster Postcodes
2.13.3 Concentration Risk Postcodes
2.13.4 Island postcodes not connected by a road bridge to pe mainland
2.14 Assessing non-real estate security collateral value
2.15 Valuation Review
3. Process to follow
3.1 Desktop Valuation
3.2 Residential Short Form Valuation
3.2.1 Reviewing and actioning a Residential Short Form Valuation
3.3 Reviewing and actioning a Residential Long Form Valuation
3.4 Valuation Review

1. About this policy

1.1 Why this policy

This policy lists the rules you must apply when assessing residential security collateral risk for consumer mortgage lending.

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000686

1/26

Note: Non-specialised commercial security collateral may be considered on an exception basis when approved by Credit.

The bank performs several validation checks in our origination system. These additional checks form part of the overall valuation strategy and policy.

Refer to this policy in conjunction with Acceptable Security Collateral and Loan to Value Ratio (LVR) > Calculating the LVR and Security value.

For definitions relating to this policy, refer to Glossary.

If the loan application requires mortgage insurance, refer to Lenders Mortgage Insurance where required.

# 1.2 Security collateral value - Market Value

Market value for real estate is defined as:

'The estimated amount which a seller would expect to receive from an informed purchaser for the property in the current resale market with normal marketing support through an Australian based real estate agency. The market value is determined on a vacant possession basis and must exclude purchase incentives, non-fixed chattels, legal / stamp duty costs and rental guarantees.'

A market value assessed on this basis will not reflect the mortgagee in possession or other forced sale circumstances.

Also see:

More than one market value

Contract of Sale (COS)

# 1.3 What are acceptable real estate valuation methods?

The bank accepts the following real estate valuation methods and will apply the below hierarchy where multiple valuations are held within the acceptable age limit:

1. Residential & Construction Long Form valuation
2. Residential & Construction Short Form valuation
3. Desktop valuation
4. Automated Valuation Model (AVM) (also known as Modelled Estimate, Electronic Assessment, E-Val)
5. Contract Verification Service (CVS) – cannot be used as an existing valuation

e.g. If the existing valuations are AVM, Desktop and Short Form, then use the Short Form

# 2. Rules you must apply

# 2.1 Customer estimated market value

The customer estimated market value is the estimated dollar value the customer provides us of their residential real estate property.

During the R&O conversation a discussion would be had with the customer about the amount of funding they require and what the funds would be used for. It is reasonable to assume the customer estimate value of their property is sufficient to meet their needs in line with the R&O.

The customer estimated market value is not to be amended within an application once a valuation (any type) has been completed.

Also see Automated Valuation Model (AVM).

# 2.2 Assessing security collateral value using the valuation report

Valuation reports are only to be accepted from valuers on the Westpac Group approved Residential Valuer panel.

All valuation reports are to be addressed to the Bank.

# 2.3 Requesting a Valuation Report

A valuation report:

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000686

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Can only be requested by an authorised staff member or Broker of Westpac Banking Group and must be ordered via Property Hub.

Cannot be requested for the purchase of a property where the offer has not been accepted by the owner (to assist a prospective purchaser e.g. pre-purchase valuations are not permitted).

Ownership of Valuation Report

All valuation reports remain the property of the Bank and should not be offered to the customer. Reports are prepared for and addressed to the Bank for residential mortgage lending purposes.

If a customer requires a copy of the bank valuation to support their application for a grant, the customer is to complete the 'Customer declaration and acknowledgement' form and only on receipt of the signed form can the valuation be provided to the customer.

Risk Ratings and reading valuation reports

|Scenario|Risk ratings (in all cases ignore a 4 'risk rating' for 'Improvements' in 'to be erected valuations')|Valuation report must be read by the broker / assessor|Refer to Credit (When a credit referral is required credit must also read the valuation report)|
|---|---|---|---|
|Any Product|Land|Yes|No|
|Any Product|Any 5 (excluding a Market Direction risk rating)|No|Yes|
|Living area less than 40sqm|Any| |Yes|
|Where the security requires repairs less than or equal to $25k and the valuer has not advised an expert opinion is required|4 for: Improvements|Yes|No|
|Where the security requires repairs greater than $25k|Any| |Yes|
|Valuation type is a long form|Any|Yes| |

Refer to the 'How to read a long form valuation' guide

Link to the source

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Mortgage insured refer to Credit rules will apply where the LVR is greater than 80% and the Bank is either paying the Mortgage insurance premium on behalf of the borrower or the borrower is paying a reduced mortgage insurance premium. For example, if the Bank is running a campaign for First Home Buyers with a $1 MI premium and the LVR is greater than 80%, follow Mortgage Insured rules.

Note: Except for living area <40sqm the below table only relates to acceptable security properties, refer to Acceptable Security Collateral

|Scenario|Risk ratings (in all cases ignore a 4 'risk rating' for 'Improvements' in 'to be erected valuations')|Valuation report must be read by the broker / assessor|Refer to Credit (When a credit referral is required credit must also read the valuation report)|
|---|---|---|---|
|Any Product|4 for: Location Environment Market Segment Conditions|No|Yes|
|Any Product|Any 5|No|Yes|
|Living area less than 40sqm|Any|No|Yes|
|Where the security requires repairs less than or equal to $10k and the valuer has not advised an expert opinion is required|4 for: Improvements|Yes|No|
|Where the security requires repairs: Greater than $10k or When the valuer has advised an expert opinion is required|Greater than or equal to 4 for: Improvements|Yes|Yes|
|Valuation type is a long form|Any|Yes|Only when any of the above scenarios also apply Refer to the 'How to read a long form valuation' guide|

2.6 More than one market value

In situations where more than 1 market value is available on the one valuation report, use the lower of the values except where:

- Credit (or other Credit Risk authorised staff) have approved using a higher value, or
- Where the below applies

Where the security collateral is subject to a Defence Housing Authority (DHA) sale and leaseback arrangement, the panel valuer's valuation report will contain 2 property values. The lower figure represents the vacant possession value. The higher figure is the vacant possession value plus the worth of the government rental guarantee. Where the loan is mortgage insured or requires a valuation, then the higher figure is acceptable if:

- The rental guarantee assessment is not greater than 110% of the vacant possession assessment

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

The loan is amortising. The lease has 6 or more years to run excluding options to renew. Where the loan is not subject to mortgage insurance or the LVR ≤ 80%, then the higher valuation figure is acceptable.

# Contract of Sales (Purchase Price)

A Contact of Sale (COS) is not to be used in isolation as a security collateral value assessment. Also see: Contract Verification Service (CVS)

# Requirements to obtain a COS

A fully executed contract by the vendor and purchaser must be held prior to settlement where:

- The application is to be mortgage insured
- The application includes a First Home Owner Grant (FHOG)
- The CVS is being used to validate the purchase price as the security valuation method. You must identify if the purchase price includes any non-fixed chattels, rebates or incentives offered.

A full copy of the COS (does not need to be fully executed) must be held when an SDR assessment is required on the property being purchased. For all other circumstances a full copy of the COS is preferred but not mandatory.

# Review of COS

A COS received during the application process must be reviewed to ensure the security meets the below criteria:

- The property must be zoned to allow residential usage. For further information refer to Acceptable Security Collateral policy > Assessing security collateral requirements
- The cost / value of any chattels (e.g. furnishings) and / or rebates or incentives being offered by the vendor are to be deducted from the total purchase price to determine the security value. Refer to Chattels, Rebates and Incentives
- The security is being purchased

Request a valuation report via Property Hub where it is identified that:

- The transaction is not being completed at arm's length through an independent Australian based real estate agent (i.e. it is a private sale), or
- The Contract of Sale indicates a ‘Put and Call’ contract, or
- The Contract of Sale is older than 3 months

If the COS is undated and is not a First Home Owners Grant (FHOG) application, assume that the contract date is the date the Privacy Consent was obtained.

Also refer to: Contract of sale (purchase price) Minimum criteria to be obtained from the Contract of Sale

# Minimum Criteria to be obtained from the Contract of Sale

Where you are required to obtain a copy of the contract of sale, the document must display the minimum criteria as per Document Standards

# Chattels, Rebates and Incentives

Where a contract of sale includes any non-fixed chattels, Rebates or Incentives offered, the cost / value of any non-fixed chattels (e.g. furnishings) and / or the value of any rebates or incentives offered by the vendor are to be deducted from the total purchase price to determine the security value which is entered in the origination platform. Where this adjustment to the security value is required, a CVS cannot be used to validate the COS purchase price. The CVS is not to be ordered and the next higher valuation type is to be requested.

# Chattels

The below list of chattels are to be assessed as 'fixed' and no further action is required when they are specified in a contract of sale:

- Air conditioning equipment (including heaters and fans)
- BBQs
- Built in furniture, outdoor furniture
- Carpets / floor coverings

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Clopes dryer, washing machine
Dishwashers
Fish tanks
Fridges / Freezers
Garden decor (statues, ponds, lights, plants, pots, fountains etc.)
Garden irrigation equipment (i.e. domestic use)
Garden sheds, clopes lines, cubby houses, bird aviary
Kitchen island benches detached / movable
Inbuilt Audio / Video systems (including home peatre systems)
Lawn mowers (including ride on mowers)
Light fittings
Ovens (including Microwave ovens) / Cooktops / Rangehoods
National Broadband Network (NBN) equipment
Pool tables
Pools, spas and equipment
Remote control devices
Rubbish Bins
Security systems
Septic tanks
Television (including TV antennas, satellite dish or pay TV equipment)
Wardrobes
Water tanks / pumps
Window treatments

# Contract Verification Service (CVS)

The CVS is a tool that will either validate the purchase price (COS) or escalate it to the next appropriate valuation type. The CVS is only available where the security assessment is ordered by OBP or via Property Hub.

The CVS can be used to validate the purchase price (COS) if all of the below apply:

- no default full valuation scenarios are present, and
- The Contract of Sale does not include any non-fixed chattels, rebates or Incentives offered, and
- the security collateral meets criteria in the below table

|Acceptable Security Type|Purchase Price|Non-mortgage insured (excluding Mortgage Insurance Waived)|Mortgage Insured and Mortgage Insurance Waived|
|---|---|---|---|
|Fully Detached House, Semi Detached House, Terrace, Villa (excluding vacant land)|Less than or equal to $2m|Less than or equal to 80%|Must be Category: 1 Metro, 2 Regional or 3 Larger Country postcode only - refer to Postcode Categories The mortgage insurer is not QBE|
|Strata title unit, Townhouse, Duplex (excluding newly built: strata title unit, townhouse or duplex)|Less than or equal to $1.5m|Less than or equal to 80%|Must be Category: 1 Metro, 2 Regional or 3 Larger Country postcode only - refer to Postcode Categories|
| |Greater than $2m to less than or equal to $3m|Less than or equal to 80%|Not available|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000686

# Max LVR and Additional Requirements

|Acceptable Security Type|Purchase Price|Non-mortgage insured (excluding Mortgage Insurance Waived)|Mortgage Insured and Mortgage Insurance Waived|
|---|---|---|---|
| |only| | |
| | | |The mortgage insurer is not QBE|

# 2.9.1 CVS Validation

The CVS validation is restricted to the specific customer and transaction it was ordered for.

|CVS Result|Outcome|
|---|---|
|Pass|Purchase price (COS) is validated|
|Fail|Purchase price (COS) is not validated. An alternate eligible valuation method is required|

# 2.10 Automated Valuation Model (AVM)

An Automated Valuation Model (AVM) is an electronic valuation that is completed based on recent property sales in the area. They are also known as Modelled Estimate, Electronic Assessment or E-Vals. An AVM is a brief report that indicates the amount the property is worth.

Where an AVM search on a security collateral property is successful, it is used to validate the customer estimated market value. The validation is restricted to the specific customer the AVM was ordered for.

If the AVM does not validate the customer estimated market value:

- the AVM electronic price estimate may be used, otherwise
- an alternate eligible valuation method is required

Where an AVM has been completed, the customer estimated market value is not to be amended. The AVM result can only be relied upon based on the original customer estimated market value.

# 2.11 Valuation amount lower than purchase price

There may be circumstances in which the valuation of a property is significantly less than the stated purchase price.

Where the valuation amount is less than 90% of the purchase price, the customers (and guarantor/s if any) are to be informed in writing and their written acknowledgement obtained.

For applications approved via OBP, borrower/s are informed of, and acknowledge their acceptance (wet signature or digital) via the application 'playback 'document, which is part of the loan offer pack. Guarantor/s receive the application 'playback 'document with their guarantee documents to review before signing a guarantee

# 2.12 Re-using an Existing Valuation

Valuation methods previously used to determine the value of a security collateral are stored in the Bank’s system and ValEx and may be re-used subject to meeting policy requirements.

Existing valuation results (excluding AVM) held in the valuation system for a specific property may be used for a different customer as a valid existing valuation in terms of assessing residential security.

# 2.13 Postcode Categories

# 2.13.1 Postcode Category by States / Territory

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000686

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Category|Postcodes|
|---|---|
|Metro|2000, 2007 – 2011, 2015 – 2234, 2250 – 2265, 2267, 2278, 2280 – 2308, 2315 – 2323, 2327, 2340, 2444, 2450, 2452, 2477 – 2489, 2500 – 2534, 2555 – 2579, 2600 – 2621, 2640-2641, 2650 – 2651, 2745 – 2774, 2776 – 2785, 2795, 2830, 2900 – 2914|
|Regional|2324 – 2326, 2330, 2333-2335, 2350, 2428 – 2430, 2443, 2445, 2446, 2456, 2460, 2464, 2490, 2535, 2538 – 2541, 2580, 2680, 2731, 2738 – 2739, 2800|
|Larger Country|2360, 2380, 2400, 2427, 2431, 2440, 2447, 2448, 2454 – 2455, 2463, 2466, 2470, 2536 – 2537, 2546, 2548 – 2549, 2550, 2551, 2582 – 2583, 2594, 2630, 2642 – 2643, 2647, 2710, 2720, 2790, 2794, 2850, 2870, 2880|
|Not used|Not currently used|
|High Density|2000 – 2006, 2008, 2138, 2140, 2205 (These postcodes relate to unit properties only)|
|High Risk|2007, 2009, 2015 – 2017 (These postcodes relate to unit properties only)|
|Country|2309 – 2312, 2328 – 2329, 2331, 2336 – 2339, 2341 – 2347, 2352 – 2359, 2361, 2365, 2369 – 2372, 2379, 2381 – 2382, 2386 – 2388, 2390, 2395 – 2399, 2401 – 2411, 2415, 2420 – 2426, 2439, 2441, 2449, 2453, 2462, 2465, 2469, 2471 – 2476, 2545, 2581, 2584 – 2590, 2622 – 2629, 2631 – 2633, 2644 – 2646, 2648-2649, 2652 – 2653, 2655 – 2656, 2658 – 2661, 2663, 2665 – 2666, 2668 – 2669, 2671 – 2672, 2675, 2681, 2700 – 2703, 2705 – 2707, 2711 – 2717, 2721 – 2722, 2725 – 2727, 2729 – 2730, 2732 – 2737, 2775, 2786 – 2787, 2791 – 2793, 2797 – 2799, 2803 – 2810, 2818, 2820 – 2821, 2823 – 2825, 2827 – 2829, 2831 – 2836, 2839 – 2840, 2842 – 2849, 2852, 2864 – 2869, 2871, 2873 – 2879, 2898 – 2899|
|Two Tier|Not currently used|

|Category|Postcodes|
|---|---|
|Metro|3000 – 3009, 3011 – 3207, 3211– 3216, 3218 – 3220, 3221, 3222 – 3228, 3232 - 3234, 3335 – 3341, 3429, 3690, 3750, 3752, 3754 – 3755, 3765 – 3767, 3781 – 3796, 3802 – 3810, 3812, 3910 – 3920, 3926 – 3944, 3975 – 3978|
|Regional|3217, 3230, 3280, 3350, 3355 – 3356, 3358, 3437 – 3438, 3460 - 3461, 3500 – 3501, 3550 – 3556, 3564, 3630 – 3631, 3691, 3756 – 3757, 3759, 3761, 3770, 3775, 3777, 3840 – 3842, 3844|
|Larger Country|3231, 3249 – 3250, 3300, 3305, 3331, 3352, 3357, 3363, 3377, 3400, 3431, 3440, 3442, 3444, 3450, 3465, 3585, 3616, 3620, 3629, 3636, 3660, 3672, 3677, 3730, 3758, 3764, 3814 – 3816, 3818, 3820, 3823 – 3825, 3850, 3875, 3880, 3909, 3922, 3980 – 3981, 3995 – 3996|
|Not used|Not currently used|

|Category|Postcodes|
|---|---|
|High Density|3000 – 3005, 3007, 3009, 3141, 3205 (These postcodes relate to unit properties only)|
|High Risk|3006, 3008 (These postcodes relate to unit properties only)|
|Country|3235 – 3243, 3251, 3254, 3260, 3264 – 3279, 3281 – 3287, 3289, 3292 – 3294, 3301 – 3304, 3309 – 3312, 3314 – 3315, 3317 – 3319, 3321 – 3325, 3328 – 3330, 3332 – 3334, 3342, 3345, 3351, 3360 – 3361, 3364, 3370 – 3371, 3373, 3375, 3378 – 3381, 3384 – 3385, 3387 – 3388, 3390 – 3393, 3395 – 3396, 3399, 3401, 3407, 3409, 3412 – 3415, 3418 – 3420, 3423 – 3424, 3427 – 3428, 3430, 3432 – 3435, 3441, 3446 – 3448, 3451, 3453, 3458, 3462 – 3464, 3467 – 3469, 3472 – 3480, 3482 – 3483, 3485 – 3491, 3494, 3496, 3498, 3505 – 3507, 3509, 3512, 3515 – 3518, 3520 – 3523, 3525, 3527, 3529 – 3531, 3533, 3537, 3540, 3542, 3544, 3546, 3549, 3557 – 3559, 3561 – 3563, 3565 – 3568, 3570 – 3573, 3575 – 3576, 3579 – 3581, 3583 – 3584, 3586, 3588 – 3591, 3594 – 3597, 3599, 3607 – 3608, 3610, 3612, 3614, 3617 – 3619, 3621 - 3624, 3633 – 3635, 3637 – 3641, 3644, 3646, 3649, 3658 – 3659, 3662 – 3666, 3669 – 3670, 3673, 3675, 3678, 3682 – 3683, 3685, 3687 – 3688, 3694 – 3695, 3697 – 3701, 3704 – 3705, 3707 – 3709, 3711 – 3715, 3717 – 3720, 3722 – 3723, 3725 – 3728, 3732 – 3733, 3735, 3737 – 3741, 3744, 3746 – 3747, 3749, 3751, 3753, 3760, 3762 – 3763, 3778 – 3779, 3797, 3799, 3813, 3821, 3822, 3831 – 3833, 3835, 3843, 3847, 3851, 3854, 3856 – 3860, 3862, 3864 – 3865, 3869 – 3871, 3873 – 3874, 3878, 3882, 3885 – 3893, 3895 – 3896, 3898, 3900, 3902 – 3904, 3921, 3923 – 3925, 3945 – 3946, 3950 – 3951, 3953 – 3954, 3956 – 3960, 3962, 3964 – 3967, 3971, 3979, 3984, 3987 – 3992|

|Category|Postcodes|
|---|---|
|Metro|4000 – 4022, 4030 – 4179, 4205 – 4221, 4223, 4224- 4229, 4280, 4300 – 4306, 4350, 4500 – 4512, 4516 – 4520, 4550 – 4567, 4572 – 4573, 4575, 4700 – 4701, 4711, 4740, 4750 – 4751, 4810 – 4815, 4817 – 4818, 4865, 4868 – 4870, 4878 – 4879|
|Regional|4270 – 4272, 4352, 4370, 4514, 4521, 4568, 4570, 4655, 4670, 4680, 4703, 4710, 4720, 4753, 4802, 4819, 4877, 4881, 4883|
|Larger Country|4285, 4343, 4405, 4610, 4650, 4737, 4800, 4805, 4807 – 4808, 4816, 4820, 4825, 4850, 4860, 4880|
|Not used|Not currently used|
|High Density|4001 – 4004, 4215, 4217, 4218, 4870, 4879 (These postcodes relate to unit properties only)|
|High Risk|4000, 4005 – 4006 (These postcodes relate to unit properties only)|
|Country|4025, 4183 – 4184, 4275, 4287, 4307, 4309 – 4314, 4340 – 4342, 4344 – 4347, 4353 – 4365, 4371 – 4378, 4380 – 4385, 4387 – 4388, 4390, 4400 – 4404, 4406 – 4408, 4410 – 4413, 4415 – 4428, 4454 – 4455, 4461 – 4462, 4465, 4467 – 4468, 4470 – 4472, 4474 – 4475, 4477 – 4482, 4486 – 4494, 4496 – 4498, 4515, 4569, 4571, 4574, 4580 – 4581, 4600 – 4601, 4605 – 4606, 4608, 4611 – 4615, 4620 – 4621, 4625 – 4627, 4630, 4659 – 4660, 4662, 4671, 4673 – 4674, 4676 – 4678, 4694 – 4695, 4697, 4699, 4702, 4704 – 4707, 4709, 4712 – 4719, 4721 – 4728, 4730 – 4733, 4735 – 4736, 4738 – 4741, 4744, 4746 – 4747, 4749, 4751, 4753, 4760, 4762 – 4763, 4778 – 4779, 4797, 4799, 4813, 4821, 4822, 4831 – 4833, 4835, 4843, 4847, 4851, 4854, 4856 – 4860, 4862, 4864 – 4865, 4869 – 4871, 4873 – 4874, 4878, 4882, 4885 – 4893, 4895 – 4896, 4898, 4900, 4902 – 4904, 4921, 4923 – 4925, 4945 – 4946, 4950 – 4951, 4953 – 4954, 4956 – 4960, 4962, 4964 – 4967, 4971, 4979, 4984, 4987 – 4992|

| |Category|Postcodes|
|---|---|---|
|SA|Two Tier| |
|1|Metro| |
| | |5000, 5006 – 5174, 5231 – 5234, 5240 - 5251|
|2|Regional| |
| | |5211 – 5214, 5290, 5355, 5600, 5608 – 5609|
| |3|Larger Country|
|5201 – 5204, 5252, 5253, 5255, 5280, 5291, 5333, 5341, 5343, 5345, 5351 – 5353, 5453, 5501, 5540, 5554 – 5556, 5558, 5606, 5700| | |
|4|Not used| |
|5|High Density| |
| | |5000 (These postcodes relate to unit properties only)|
|6|High Risk| |
|5210, 5220 – 5223, 5235 – 5238, 5254, 5256, 5259 – 5279, 5301 – 5312, 5320 – 5322, 5330 – 5332, 5340, 5342, 5344, 5346, 5350, 5354, 5356 – 5357, 5360, 5371 – 5374, 5381, 5400 – 5401, 5410, 5411 – 5422, 5431 – 5434, 5440, 5451 – 5452, 5454 – 5455| | |
| | |7|Country|
|5460 – 5462, 5464, 5470 – 5473, 5480 – 5483, 5485, 5490 – 5491, 5493, 5495, 5502, 5510, 5520 – 5523, 5550, 5552, 5560, 5570 – 5573, 5575 – 5577, 5580 – 5583, 5601 – 5605, 5607, 5630 – 5633, 5640 – 5642, 5650 – 5655, 5660 – 5661, 5670 – 5671, 5680, 5690, 5701, 5710, 5720, 5722 – 5725, 5730 – 5734| | |
|8|Two Tier| |
|WA| | |
|1|Metro| |
|6000 – 6038, 6040 – 6074, 6076 - 6214, 6229, 6230, 6232-6233, 6280 – 6282, 6284 – 6285, 6330, 6530| | |
|2|Regional| |
| | |6231, 6290, 6450, 6725 – 6726|
| |3|Larger Country|
| | |6225, 6333, 6401, 6430, 6432, 6714, 6721 – 6722, 6713|
|4|Not used| |
|5|High Density| |
| | |6000 – 6005, 6210 (These postcodes relate to unit properties only)|
|6|High| |
| | | |

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Category|Postcodes|
|---|---|
|Risk|6215, 6218, 6220 – 6221, 6223 – 6224, 6226 – 6228, 6236 – 6237, 6239 – 6240, 6243 – 6244, 6251 – 6256, 6258, 6260, 6262, 6271, 6275, 6286, 6288, 6302, 6304, 6306, 6308 – 6309, 6311 – 6313, 6315 – 6318, 6320 – 6324, 6326 – 6328, 6335 – 6338, 6341, 6343, 6346, 6348, 6350 – 6353, 6355 – 6359, 6361, 6363, 6365, 6367 – 6370, 6372 – 6373, 6375, 6383 – 6386, 6390 – 6398, 6403, 6405, 6407, 6409 – 6415, 6418 – 6429, 6431, 6433 – 6448, 6452, 6460 – 6463, 6465 – 6468, 6470, 6472 – 6473, 6475 – 6477, 6479 – 6480, 6484 – 6485, 6487 – 6490, 6501 – 6507, 6509 - 6519, 6521 – 6522, 6525, 6528, 6532, 6535 – 6537, 6556, 6558, 6560, 6562, 6564, 6566 – 6569, 6571 – 6572, 6574 – 6575, 6603, 6605 – 6606, 6608 – 6609, 6612 – 6614, 6616, 6620, 6623, 6625, 6627 – 6628, 6630 – 6632, 6635, 6638 – 6640, 6642, 6646, 6701, 6705, 6707, 6710, 6711, 6712, 6716, 6718, 6720, 6728, 6731, 6733, 6740, 6743, 6751, 6753, 6754, 6758, 6760 – 6762, 6765, 6770, 6798 – 6799, 6999|
|Country|822, 837 – 841, 845 – 847, 851 – 854, 860 – 862, 871 – 872, 880 – 881, 885 – 886|

|Category|Postcodes|
|---|---|
|NT|Not currently used|
|1 Metro|800, 810 – 820, 828 – 832|
|2 Regional|834, 835, 836, 870, 875|
|3 Larger Country|850|
|4 Not used|Not currently used|
|5 High Density|800 (These postcodes relate to unit properties only)|
|6 High Risk|-|
|7 Country|822, 837 – 841, 845 – 847, 851 – 854, 860 – 862, 871 – 872, 880 – 881, 885 – 886|
|8 Two Tier|Not currently used|

|Category|Postcodes|
|---|---|
|TAS|Not currently used|
|1 Metro|7000 – 7019, 7021, 7050 – 7055, 7170 – 7172, 7248 – 7250, 7258, 7277, 7290, 7300|
|2 Regional|7025, 7173, 7307, 7310 – 7315|
|3 Larger Country|7030, 7316, 7320, 7325|
|4 Not used|Not currently used|
|5 High|7000 (These postcodes relate to unit properties only)|

Source: Link

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Category|Postcodes|
|---|---|
|6|High Risk|
| |7020, 7022 – 7024, 7026-7027, 7109, 7112 – 7113, 7116 – 7117, 7119 – 7120, 7139|
|7|Country|
| |7140, 7150 – 7151, 7155, 7162 – 7163, 7174 – 7180, 7182 – 7187, 7190, 7209 – 7216, 7252 – 7257, 7259 – 7265, 7267 – 7268, 7270, 7275 – 7276, 7291 – 7292, 7301 – 7306, 7321 – 7322, 7330 – 7331, 7466 – 7470|
|8|Two Tier|
| |Not currently used|

# Disaster Postcodes

|2021 WA Bushfire locations|
|---|
|Maximum age of an existing valuation is as per standard policy|
|6083|6084|6558|
|2021 WA Cyclone Seroja locations|
|Maximum age of an existing valuation is as per standard policy|
|6536|
|2021 Land subsidence locations|
|Maximum age of an existing valuation is as per standard policy|
|2570|
|2021 NSW Flood locations|
|Maximum age of an existing valuation is as per standard policy|
|2430|
|2022 NSW Flood locations|
|Feb 2022|
|Maximum age of an existing valuation is as per standard policy|
|2330|2460|2462|2463|2753|2756|2480|
|Oct 2022|

Link to more information

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|2380|2390|2399|2400|2806|2824|2866|2871|2877|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Jul 2022|Maximum age of an existing valuation is as per standard policy|
|2775|
|2022 QLD Flood locations.|
|Feb 2022|Maximum age of an existing valuation is as per standard policy|
|4067|4101|4103|4104|4650|
|2022 VIC Flood locations.|
|Oct 2022|Maximum age of an existing valuation is as per standard policy|
|3561|3579|3629|3630|3631|

# Concentration Risk Postcodes

|0880|0881|4717|4718|4742|4744|4745|4746|4803|4804|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|4854|4874|5725|6348|6390|6429|6442|6714|6720|6721|
|6722|6751|6753|6798| | | | | | |

# Island postcodes not connected by a road bridge to the mainland

The below are known postcodes for island locations not connected by a road bridge. This postcode list is not definitive. In some cases a mainland and island location may share the same postcode. Brokers/assessors must manually check if the security location is also an island location not connected by a bridge and apply the correct LVR.

|2898|2899|4025|4183|4184|4803|4819|5220|5221|5222|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|5223|6798|6799|7255|7256| | | | |

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000686

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

2.14 Assessing non-real estate security collateral value

The only acceptable non-real estate security collateral is a term deposit. The market value of a term deposit is determined by the face value of the investment.

Note: This security type is not available for mortgage insured applications.

2.15 Valuation Review

If the below criteria applies, the valuation cannot be reviewed/challenged:

- Security assessment is an electronic (E-val) assessment, CVS, or desktop assessment
- The resultant LVR is within acceptable non-mortgaged insured lending guidelines
- Date of the escalation is more than one month from the date of the valuation
- If a loan is mortgage insured by Helia (formerly Genworth)

# 3. Process to follow

3.1 Desktop Valuation

The Desktop Valuation result will be provided with a detailed message based on the following policy parameters:

- Contract price or estimated market value is validated when the Desktop is not more than 10% or not more than $50,000 under the contract amount or estimated market value. Use the contract amount or estimated market value.
- Contract price is not validated. A Residential Short Form Valuation must be ordered.
- If estimated market value is not validated, the Desktop price estimate result may be used.

3.2 Residential Short Form Valuation

3.2.1 Reviewing and actioning a Residential Short Form Valuation:

Residential Short Form valuation reports showing any of the following features must be referred to Credit to determine if the property is acceptable as collateral security:

|Loan Type|Feature requiring referral|
|---|---|
|Mortgage Insured loan|- The Valuation Risk Alerts (VRAs) answered ‘Yes’ to:
- Does the subject property comprise a higher risk or a non-residential property type?
- Are there any adverse marketability issues that would require an extended selling period of more than 6 months?
- Are the existing improvements on the property incomplete, under construction, or requiring essential repairs?
- Is the subject property critically affected by any Heritage, location, or environmental issues?
- Any other Critical Risk or adverse features highlighted in valuer's comments (other than above)
- "Critical" risks - specific to the subject property and/or considered to have a negative impact on marketability or value of the subject property
- Adverse features evident on the valuation.
- Defined as "Any material adverse risks affecting the subject property" including but not limited to:
- Property incomplete or poorly maintained and in need of repairs (Essential Repairs/Repairs >$5k).
- Being sold by a builder/developer (where valuer comment relates to Rebates, cash-back arrangements evident or other adverse comments relating to Purchase or Building
|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000686

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Contracts)

any part of the property not being used for its designed purpose, is something other than strictly residential, any structures/improvements that may not be council approved property is affected by a "critical risk" attributable to any heritage, location or environmental issues (the risk is specific to the property and is not generally accepted by the market) the property saleability and/or value may be adversely affected by a "critical risk" specific to the property, or known/observable encumbrances, issues or on-going heightened concern as advised by the valuer, that is not generally accepted by the market or results in restricted marketability (e.g. RTA affectation, restricted use, adverse easements, proximity to Railway Lines, Commercial/Industrial Area, Adverse Zoning, restricted use/unique in nature)

Selling period &gt;6 months

Minimum requirements for Sales Evidence unavailable/ Lack of acceptable Comparable Sales. (At least three (3) comparable sales presented. Comparable sales to be like-for-like (property), preferably within 15% variance and within 6 months of the valuation date.)

NOTE: Permissible for two (2) comparable sales held within acceptable parameters, in addition with one (1) sale outside supported by a satisfactory explanation and where other strengths are evident within the application.

Any scenario requiring referral as detailed under Risk Rating of Valuation Report.

# Non-Mortgage Insured loan

# 3.3 Reviewing and actioning a Residential Long Form Valuation

Residential Long Form valuation reports are all to be assessed to determine if the property is acceptable as security and the valuation amount to be accepted.

This Includes (but not limited to):

- Property use and description matches the security characteristics within the loan assessment system– (e.g. Mixed use, Land Size Etc)
- Review the content of a valuation report in full
- Where necessary on review of valuation, and adverse features are apparent (including Risk Ratings as below) the application is to be referred to Credit

Refer to 'How to read a long form valuation' guide.

# 3.4 Valuation Review

|Step|Action|
|---|---|
|1|Read the valuation in its entirety, as often the valuer’s comments in the report and the comparable sales utilised will explain and/or clarify why the valuation has come in lower than the customer's estimate. At this point the customer’s concerns can be managed by the broker without further consultation or delay.|
|2|If after reading the valuation fully and customer is still not satisfied with the explanation provided by the broker and there is other relevant factual sales information* that supports consideration for a review, then the valuation can be queried as follows: - The Broker can request Mortgage Operations to raise a Value Query directly with the Valuer in ValEx system and provide the additional comparable sales for consideration (settled sales will be viewed more favourably).
Note: To ensure service levels are not compromised, communications with the valuer must be kept brief, factual and professional at all times. Inappropriate behaviour will not be tolerated, and all instances will be referred to the respective state general manager for action as required. *Relevant information includes: - Commentary confirming an oversight or error made by the valuer; or
|

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000686

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Valid Comparable sales (which do not already appear in the valuation report) within the last 6 months, with details of:

- Within the same location and not from within the same complex if a new development
- Similar price range
- Similar with regards to condition, price range, type of property, land size, and layout (bedrooms, bathrooms etc)

Note: Sales evidence cannot include properties sold directly from the Developer; they must be re-sales.

The valuer will review the valuation query and either agree to adjust the valuation or reconfirm the original valuation.

If the valuer agrees to adjust the valuation, the report will be amended and delivered through ValEx.

Note: The valuer must support the adjusted valuations with appropriate justifiable comments and/or additional sales evidence. Should CoreLogic compliance identify an issue with the report, it will be returned to the Valuer to review.

Note: Lodging a query does not guarantee the valuation will be amended, therefore customers should not be prematurely advised of a possible outcome.

# Change History

|Amendment number|Issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|1|3 November 2021|First OBP issue online for Brokers on the OKA platform.|
|2|20 February 2022|Policy correction. Removal of postcode 2765 from section 2.5.3 Flood Affected Postcodes. (2765 was incorrectly included in the list of postcodes requiring a valuation dated after 1/4/2021 in the policy change implemented Aug 2021)|
|3|22 May 2022|Change 1: Updated section ‘2.1.4 Desktop Valuation’ to add note “The use of desktop valuations is limited by available data and sales results. There are locations within postcode categories where desktop valuations are not acceptable. The system decision must be followed”. Change 2: Change to content in section 3.2.2 Risk Rating of Valuation Report, new allowable variance added Market Risk Rating related to Direction (price) Applications may be progressed without referral to Credit where: - the valuation contains a single Market Risk rating for Direction (price) of >=4 and the valuation comments identify the market risk rating is specific to COVID-19 factors only. - Assessment notes must be added to origination systems to confirm and acknowledge the RR4 or RR5 is COVID-19 related only (e.g. the commentary provided by the valuer references COVID-19 and / or lockdowns as the cause of the Market uncertainty) and the|

Link to source

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Application is being progressed as an allowable variance. Applications may not be progressed without referral to Credit where:

- The market risk ratings valuation comments include non-COVID-19 related factors.
- There are adverse risk ratings on any other valuation characteristics, including where an extended selling period of over 6 months is noted.

# Change 3

Change to content in section 3.2.2 Risk Rating of Valuation Report and 2.3 Assessing security collateral value using Automated Valuation model (Acceptable Security Type table)

Change from segmenting the refer to Credit rules:

From:

- Non-Mortgage Insured loans
- Mortgage Insured loans or LVR > 80% (including LMI waiver)

To:

- Non-Mortgage Insured loans (includes applications assessed under ‘Special Packages’ LMI waiver policies)
- Mortgage Insured loans

New legend item 2

Mortgage Insured ‘refer to Credit rules’ will apply where the LVR > 80% and the Bank is either paying the Mortgage insurance premium on behalf of the borrower or the borrower is paying a reduced mortgage insurance premium.

For example if the Bank is running a campaign for First Home Buyers with a $1 MI premium and the LVR is > 80%, follow Mortgage Insured rules.

# Change 4

General rewrite to remove procedures from policy and improve policy clarity

# Change 1

Created new section 2.15.3 and new category of ‘Disaster Postcodes’:

- Re-located existing postcodes for ‘2021 WA Bushfire’, 2021 ‘WA Cyclone’, ‘2021 Land Subsidence’ and ‘2021 NSW Flood locations’ under the ‘Disaster Postcodes’ category.
- Postcodes in this category require a default full valuation, and where an existing full valuation is held it must comply with specified maximum age restrictions. No change to policy or risk appetite- clarification only change
- Added new 2022 ‘QLD’ and ‘NSW’ Flood postcodes to the ‘Disaster Postcodes’ category. Default full valuation required, and existing full valuation dated prior to 23/02/2022 cannot be used- new full valuation is required
- Updated section ‘Restricted existing valuation postcodes’:
- Removed sentence ‘Restrictions are in place regarding re-using existing valuations for properties located in the following postcodes’. No change to policy or risk appetite -Simplification change only to remove repeated content
- Replaced some references to ‘shortform valuation’ with ‘full valuation’ to align terminology. No change to policy or risk appetite- clarification only change

# Change 2

Correction of publishing error to section 1.3 What are acceptable real estate valuation methods? Valuation types are to be numbered to reflect the hierarchy of use.

Old

The bank accepts the following real estate valuation methods and will apply the below hierarchy where multiple valuations are held within the acceptable age limit:

- Residential & Construction Long Form valuation
- Residential & Construction Short Form valuation
- Desktop valuation
- Automated Valuation Model (AVM) (also known as Modelled Estimate, Electronic Assessment, E-Val)

New

The bank accepts the following real estate valuation methods and will apply the below hierarchy where multiple valuations are held within the acceptable age limit:

1. Residential & Construction Long Form valuation
2. Residential & Construction Short Form valuation
3. Desktop valuation
4. Automated Valuation Model (AVM) (also known as Modelled Estimate, Electronic Assessment, E-Val)

Source

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

# Change 3

Update to 2.8 Risk Rating in Valuation Report > Non-mortgage insured table.

Deleted duplicate sentence from table ‘(includes applications assessed under ‘Special Packages’ LMI waiver policies) Non-mortgage insured

# Change 4

Rewording of section 2.11 Chattels, rebates and incentives (no change to policy rules)

|Old|New|
|---|---|
|Should the contract include any non-fixed chattels #, Rebates or Incentives offered, and the OBP decision is initially for an AVM, the AVM is not to be ordered and the next valuation type is to be ordered The cost / value of any non-fixed chattels (e.g. furnishings) and / or the value of any rebates or incentives offered by the vendor are to be deducted from the total purchase price to determine the security value.|Where a contract of sale includes any non-fixed chattels#, Rebates or Incentives offered, the cost / value of any non-fixed chattels (e.g. furnishings) and / or the value of any rebates or incentives offered by the vendor are to be deducted from the total purchase price to determine the security value which is entered in the origination platform. Where this adjustment to the security value is required, an AVM can-not be used to validate the COS purchase price. The AVM is not to be ordered and the next higher valuation type is to be requested. For valuation hierarchy, refer to ‘What are acceptable real estate valuation methods.’|

Updated references to the ‘Minimum Document Standards Matrix’. The matrix has been superseded, with all matrix rules transferred into the main body of the ‘Document Standards’ chapter. Existing references have been updated to point to the ‘Document Standards’ chapter

# Updated section ‘Risk Rating in Valuation Report’:

Under ‘Non-mortgaged insured’ updated the definition: From ‘Non-mortgage insured (includes applications assessed under ‘Special Packages’ LMI waiver policies)’ to ‘Includes applications with LMI waived under: ‘Special Packages’ LMI waiver policies or; ‘Lenders Mortgage Insurance policy > Existing insured loans - Variations and Top Up premiums > LMI waiver – Legacy LMI providers ‘QBE and Genworth’ ‘QBE and Genworth’

# Change 1

Updated section ‘Requesting a Valuation Report’ to include ‘A Valuation report cannot be requested for the purchase of a property where the offer has not been accepted by the owner (to assist a prospective purchaser)

# Change 2

Deleted the below:

2.5.2 Restricted Existing Valuation Postcodes
2485 2486 2487
4205 4207 4208 4209 4210 4211 4212 4213 4214 4215
4216 4217 4218 4219 4220 4221 4223 4224 4225 4226
4227 4228 4229 4271 4272 4275
4517 4518 4519 4550 4551 4552 4553 4554 4555 4556
4557 4558 4559 4560 4561 4562 4563 4564 4565 4566
4567 4568 4569 4571 4572 4573 4574 4575 4819

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000686

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Under section ‘Disaster postcodes’:

- For 2021 WA bushfire locations:
- Deleted postcodes 6055, 6069, 6082
- Replaced ‘If the valuation is dated prior to 01/02/2021 it is unacceptable to use the existing valuation. Order a new short form’ with ‘Maximum age of an existing valuation is as per standard policy’
- For 2021 WA Cyclone Seroia locations:
- Replaced ‘If the valuation is dated prior to 15/04/2021 it is unacceptable to use the existing valuation. Order a new short form’ with ‘Maximum age of an existing valuation is as per standard policy’
- For 2021 Land subsidence locations:
- Replaced ‘If the valuation is dated prior to 17/05/2021 it is unacceptable to use the existing valuation. Order a new short form’ with ‘Maximum age of an existing valuation is as per standard policy’
- For 2021 NSW Flood Locations:
- Deleted postcodes 2422, 2423, 2425, 2431, 2439, 2440, 2441, 2443, 2444, 2447, 2460, 2462, 2756. (Note: 2460, 2462, 2756 remain on the 2022 NSW Flood locations list)
- Replaced ‘If the valuation is dated prior to 01/04/2021 it is unacceptable to use the existing valuation. Order a new short form’ with ‘Maximum age of an existing valuation is as per standard policy’

Change 3

Update to content in 2.10.2 Review of COS

Old wording

A COS must be reviewed to identify if any of the below criteria apply:

- the property is not zoned to allow residential usage, refer to Acceptable Security Collateral policy
- there are chattels (e.g. furnishings) and / or rebates or incentives being offered by the vendor. Also see Chattels, Rebates and Incentives
- the transaction is not being completed at arm's length through an independent Australian based real estate agent (i.e. it is a private sale) refer to Default Residential full Valuation Scenarios

If the COS is undated and is not a First Home Owners Grant (FHOG) application, assume that the contract date is the date the Privacy Consent was obtained.

New wording

2.10.2 Review of COS

A COS received during the application process must be reviewed to ensure the security meets the below criteria :

- the property must be zoned to allow residential usage. For further information refer to Acceptable Security Collateral policy > Assessing security collateral requirements
- the cost / value of any chattels (e.g. furnishings) and / or rebates or incentives being offered by the vendor are to be deducted from the total purchase price to determine the security value. Also see Chattels, Rebates and Incentives
- the security is being purchased
- the transaction is not being completed at arm's length through an independent Australian based real estate agent (i.e. it is a private sale), refer to Default Residential full Valuation Scenarios

If the COS is undated and is not a First Home Owners Grant (FHOG) application, assume that the contract date is the date the Privacy Consent was obtained.

Also refer to:

- Contract of sale (purchase price)
- Minimum criteria to be obtained from the Contract of Sale

Change 1:

Under section ‘Disaster postcodes > 2022 NSW Flood locations’:

- Split list into Feb 2022 and Jul 2022 and added associated sub-headings
- Moved postcode 2775 from Feb 2022 list, which had the rule ‘If the valuation is dated prior to 23/02/2022 it is unacceptable to use the existing valuation. Order a new full valuation’ to the Jul 2022 list with rule ‘If the valuation is dated prior to 01/07/2022 it is unacceptable to use the existing valuation. Order a new full valuation’. Clarification change to correct an error made in 20 Nov 2022 update

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000686

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

# Change 2:

Under section ‘Disaster postcodes > 2022 QLD Flood locations’:

- Added sub-heading ‘Feb 2022’ for all postcodes currently listed (clarification change to improve readability)

# Change 3:

Under section ‘Review of COS’- clarification only change

Old wording

A COS received during the application process must be reviewed to ensure the security meets the below criteria :

- the property must be zoned to allow residential usage. For further information refer to Acceptable Security Collateral policy > Assessing security collateral requirements
- the cost / value of any chattels (e.g. furnishings) and / or rebates or incentives being offered by the vendor are to be deducted from the total purchase price to determine the security value. Also see Chattels, Rebates and Incentives
- the security is being purchased
- the transaction is not being completed at arm's length through an independent Australian based real estate agent (i.e. it is a private sale)

If the COS is undated and is not a First Home Owners Grant (FHOG) application, assume that the contract date is the date the Privacy Consent was obtained.

Also refer to:

- a Contract of sale (purchase price)
- Minimum criteria to be obtained from the Contract of Sale

New wording:

A COS received during the application process must be reviewed to:

- Ensure the security meets the below criteria:
- - the property must be zoned to allow residential usage. For further information refer to Acceptable Security Collateral policy > Assessing security collateral requirement
- the cost / value of any chattels (e.g. furnishings) and / or rebates or incentives being offered by the vendor are to be deducted from the total purchase price to determine the security value. Refer to Chattels, Rebates and Incentives
- the security is being purchased

Request a valuation report via Property Hub where it is identified that:

If the COS is undated and is not a First Home Owners Grant (FHOG) application, assume that the contract date is the date the Privacy Consent was obtained.

Also refer to:

- Contract of sale (purchase price)
- Minimum criteria to be obtained from the Contract of Sale

# Change 1 - 19 February 2023

Update to wording in section 2.5 Requesting a valuation report

Old wording

cannot be requested for the purchase of a property where the offer has not been accepted by the owner (to assist a prospective purchaser)

New wording

cannot be requested for the purchase of a property where the offer has not been accepted by the owner (to assist a prospective purchaser e.g. pre-purchase valuations are not permitted)

# Change 2

Removal of obsolete line from: 2.6 Ownership of Valuation Report:

“In all cases, no new Homebuilder applications will be considered after 22nd May 2022.”

# Change 3

Update to content in section 2.5.1 Postcode Category by States / Territories

Postcode 4314 added to QLD – category 7

# Change 4

Update to content in 2.8 Risk Rating in Valuation Report

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000686

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Legend item
Risk Rating Allowable Variations
The following policy outlines specific Risk Ratings pat are acceptable under standard policy and a referral to Credit is not required:
Market Risk Rating related to Direction (price)
Applications may be progressed wipout referral to Credit where:
pe valuation contains a single Market Risk rating for Direction (price) of >= 4 and pe valuation comments identify pe market risk rating is specific to COVID-19 factors only.
Assessment notes must be added to origination systems to confirm and acknowledge pe RR4 or RR5 is COVID-19 related only (e.g. pe commentary provided by pe valuer references COVID-19 and / or lockdowns as pe cause of pe Market uncertainty) and pe application is being progressed as an allowable variance.
Applications may not be progressed wipout referral to Credit where:
pe market risk ratings valuation comments include non-COVID-19 related factors.
pere are adverse risk ratings on any oper valuation characteristics, including where an extended selling period of over 6 monps is noted.

Change 1

26 March 2023
Update to show Company Name change for Mortgage Insurance Provider Genworth to Helia

Change 1

| | |21 May 2023|New postcodes added to the 2022 ‘Disaster Postcodes’ list:|
|---|---|---|---|
| | |2022 VIC Flood locations| |
| | |Oct 2022| |
| | | |Maximum age of an existing valuation is as per standard policy|
|3561 | 3579 | 3629 | 3630 | 3631| | | |
| | |2022 NSW Flood locations| |
| | |Oct 2022| |
| | | |Maximum age of an existing valuation is as per standard policy|
|2380 | 2390 | 2399 | 2400 | 2806 | 2824 | 2866 | 2871 | 2877| | | |

Change 2

Under section ‘Disaster Postcodes’, replaced specific existing valuation age restrictions related to pe ‘disaster event date’ as detailed below:
2022 NSW Flood locations

Source: Link

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Feb 2022|Old wording: If the valuation is dated prior to 23/02/2022 it is unacceptable to use the existing valuation. Order a new full valuation|
|---|---|
|New wording:|‘Maximum age of an existing valuation is as per standard policy|

2330
2460
2462
2463
2753
2756
2480

|Jul 2022|Old wording: If the valuation is dated prior to 01/07/2022 it is unacceptable to use the existing valuation. Order a new full valuation|
|---|---|
|New wording:|Maximum age of an existing valuation is as per standard policy|

2775

2022 QLD Flood locations

|Feb 2022|Old wording: If the valuation is dated prior to 23/02/2022 it is unacceptable to use the existing valuation. Order a new full valuation|
|---|---|
|New wording:|Maximum age of an existing valuation is as per standard policy|

4067
4101
4103
4104
4650

| |12|2 July 2023|Change 1|
|---|---|---|---|
| | | |Replaced mathematical symbols ‘≤, =, >, <, ≥’ with equivalent words|

Change 1

Updated the table “Risk Rating in Valuation Report” for mortgage incurred loans, raising the “where the security requires repairs” among from $5k to $10k

Change 2

Included Contract Verification Service (CVS) and associated rules as a new security assessment type to verify purchase price

Change 3

Updated AVM rules to:

- restrict use to validating customer estimate only. Not available to validate purchase price

- remove references to ‘useable LVR’

- clarification only change for ‘re-using an AVM as an existing valuation’ to link to LVR rules under ‘new’ AVM

Change 4

Added “Rubbish Bins” to Chattels list

Change 1

18 February 2024

Added “National Broadband Network (NBN) equipment” to Chattels list

| |15|19 May 2024|Change 1|
|---|---|---|---|
| | | |Deleted the “Reading the Valuation report” section 2.7|

Change 2

Risk Rating in valuation reports has been updated as follows:

Old table

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000686

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Non-mortgage insured

Includes applications assessed with LMI waived under:

- ‘Special Packages’ LMI waiver policies, or
- Lenders Mortgage Insurance policy > Existing insured loans - Variations and Top Up premiums > LMI waiver – Legacy LMI providers ‘QBE and Helia (formerly Genworth)’

|Scenario|Risk ratings (in all cases ignore a 4 'risk rating' for 'Improvements' in 'to be erected valuations')|Refer to Credit (Yes/No)|
|---|---|---|
|Any Product|Any 5|Yes|
|Living area less than 40sqm|Any|Yes|
|Where the security requires repairs less than or equal to $25k|Less than or equal to 4|No|
|Where the security requires repairs greater than $25k|Any|Yes|

# New table

Non-mortgage insured

Includes applications assessed with LMI waived under:

- ‘Special Packages’ LMI waiver policies, or
- Lenders Mortgage Insurance policy > Existing insured loans - Variations and Top Up premiums > LMI waiver – Legacy LMI providers ‘QBE and Helia (formerly Genworth)’

Note: Except for living area <40sqm the below table only relates to acceptable security properties, refer to Acceptable Security Collateral

|Scenario|Risk ratings (in all cases ignore a 4 'risk rating' for 'Improvements' in 'to be erected valuations')|Valuation|Refer to Credit (When a credit report must be read by the broker / assessor must also read the valuation report)|
|---|---|---|---|
|Any Product|Land Improvements|Yes|No|
|Any Product|Market Direction risk|No|Yes|
|Living area less than 40sqm|Any|No|Yes|
|Where the security requires repairs less than or equal to|4 for: Improvements|Yes|No|

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|$25k and the valuer has not advised an expert opinion is required| | |
|---|---|---|
|Where the security requires repairs:| | |
|Greater than $25k or|Greater than or equal to 4 for:|Yes|Yes|
|When the valuer has advised an expert opinion is required| | |
|Valuation type is a long form|Any|Yes|Refer to the 'How to read a long form valuation' guide.|

Mortgage insured Old table

Mortgage insured 'refer to Credit rules' will apply where the LVR greater than 80% and the Bank is either paying the Mortgage insurance premium on behalf of the borrower or the borrower is paying a reduced mortgage insurance premium.

For example if the Bank is running a campaign for First Home Buyers with a $1 MI premium and the LVR is greater than 80%, follow Mortgage Insured rules.

| |Scenario|Risk ratings (in all cases ignore a 4 'risk rating' for 'Improvements' in 'to be erected valuations')|Refer to Credit (Yes / No)| |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| |Any Product| |Any greater than or equal to 4|Yes|
|Living area 40sqm to less than 50sqm| | |Any greater than or equal to 4|(DUA4 acceptance required if loan proceeds).|
|Living area 40sqm to less than 50sqm| |Any|Yes|(DUA4 acceptance required if loan proceeds).|
|Living area less than 40sqm| |Any|Yes|(DUA4 acceptance required if loan proceeds).|
|Where the security requires repairs less than| |Less than 4| |No|

Link to more information

|Scenario|Risk ratings (in all cases ignore a 4 'risk rating' for 'Improvements' in 'to be erected valuations')|Valuation report must be read by the lender / assessor|(When a credit referral is required credit must also read the valuation report)|
|---|---|---|---|
|Any Product|4 for: Location Land Environment Market Segment Conditions|Yes|No|
|Any Product|Any 5|No|Yes|
|Living area less than 40sqm|Any|No|Yes|
|Where the security requires repairs less than or equal to $10k and the valuer has not advised an expert opinion is required|4 for: Improvements|Yes|No|
|Where the security requires repairs:|Greater than or equal to 4 for:| | |

Mortgage insured 'refer to Credit rules' will apply where the LVR greater than 80% and the Bank is either paying the Mortgage insurance premium on behalf of the borrower or the borrower is paying a reduced mortgage insurance premium.

For example, if the Bank is running a campaign for First Home Buyers with a $1 MI premium and the LVR is greater than 80%, follow Mortgage Insured rules.

Note: Except for living area <40sqm the below table only relates to acceptable security properties, refer to Acceptable Security Collateral.

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Greater than $10k or When the valuer has advised an expert opinion is required| | | |
|---|---|---|---|
|Valuation type is a long form| |Any|Yes|
|Only when any of the above scenarios also apply Refer to the 'How to read a long form valuation' guide.| | | |

Attachments

- 03.04 How to read a long form valuation guide.pdf

Comment on this policy

Comment on this policy

Rate this policy

Published Date 19/05/2024

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000686

26/26