WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Home | View Westpac Consumer Mortgages OBP Credit Policies | Contact Us

03.02 Acceptable Security Collateral

This policy contains commercially sensitive and confidential information. No part should be made available in any form whether printed, electronic or otherwise, outside the Westpac Group without approval from Westpac Legal or Regulatory affairs.*** This document is an UNCONTROLLED copy and is subject to change without prior notification. It is only valid at the date of extract. ***

Table of Contents

1. About this policy
2. Why this policy
3. What is residential real estate security collateral?
4. Rules you must apply
5. Certificate of title
6. Second Mortgage behind other financial institution (OFI)
7. Assessing security collateral requirements - standard real estate
8. Assessing security collateral requirements - non-standard unit development
9. Security Development Register (SDR)
10. Checking the Security Development Register (SDR) for a listing
11. Non-standard development inclusion on the SDR
12. Adding a development to the SDR
13. Assessing security collateral requirements-general
14. Assessing security collateral impacted by geographical or environmental issues
15. Assessing security collateral by location
16. Assessing third party security collateral
17. Assessing non-real estate security collateral
18. Assessing unacceptable security collateral
19. Assessing specialised security collateral
20. National Disability Insurance Scheme (NDIS), Specialist Disability Accommodation (SDA) model
21. Security collateral under the National Rental Affordability Scheme
22. Headlease -NRAS specific documentation and verification requirements
23. NEJV - NRAS specific documentation and verification requirements
24. ACT asbestos affected homes ("Mr Fluffy")
25. NSW asbestos affected homes ("Mr Fluffy")
26. Homes for Home (H4H)
27. Process to follow
28. Home for Homes (H4H)

About this policy

Why this policy

This policy will help you determine which real estate and non-real estate security collateral we consider acceptable for consumer mortgages.

To determine the maximum loan to value ratio (LVR) and valuation requirement for each type of security collateral, refer to the Loan to Value Ratio (LVR) policy and Security Collateral Value policy.

If the loan application requires mortgage insurance, refer to Lenders Mortgage Insurance, where required.

What is residential real estate security collateral?

The Bank's consumer mortgage lending policy is primarily directed towards standard residential real estate, but non-standard developments may also be acceptable.

The below table details the policy rules for acceptable real estate security collateral.

|Requirement|Policy Rules|
|---|---|
|Standard real estate|Includes, but not limited to, houses, villas, units, vacant land zoned for residential use, refer Assessing security collateral requirements – standard real estate|
|Non-standard developments|Non-standard real estate is units / developments that are not typical e.g. holiday resort-style accommodation or former commercial real estate converted into apartments, refer Assessing security collateral requirements – standard real estate. The bank may accept non-standard unit developments in any postcode location, however the development must be included in the Security Development Register (SDR)|

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Security collateral objective|To confirm the borrower's ownership of the whole legal and equitable interest in the security collateral(s) and in doing so, ensuring the Banks' ability to register its mortgage and having marketable value sufficient to offset the Bank's exposure during the term of the facility.|
|---|---|
|Commercial real estate|Is not acceptable as security collateral for a consumer mortgage loan, refer Loan to Value Ratio (LVR) &gt; Unacceptable security collateral|

# Rules you must apply

# 2.1 Certificate of title

A certificate of title is a document that officially grants ownership to the holder of the property referenced by that title.

The below table details the policy rules associated with obtaining and checking a title search.

|Requirement|Policy Rules|
|---|---|
|Obtain a title search|When assessing property for its acceptability as Security Collateral for a new loan, loan increase or loan variation we must complete a title search to confirm: The type of title, e.g. freehold, strata, company The registered proprietor (the owner) Any prior mortgage's and their priority ranking Any other restrictions, or dealings registered or lodged on the title, which could impact the Banks' ability to register its mortgage or act on a mortgage once registered|
|Responsibilities|It is the responsibility of the broker / assessor to: Obtain a copy of the title search and any dealings (registered or lodged) on the certificate of title prior to formal loan approval Review the title search, interests and dealings to ensure the property is acceptable as security Comply with the requirements and rules in this table Obtain Credit (or other Credit Risk authorised staff) approval as required|
|Age of title search|Must comply with Document Standards|
|Property already owned|The owners as shown on the title search, must be exactly the same as the borrowers / guarantors (where applicable)|
|Property being purchased|The vendor / transferor as shown on the contract of sale and transfer description must be exactly the same as the registered proprietor (the owner) on the title|
|Part ownership|A part ownership share in a property cannot be considered when all owners of the security collateral offered, are not part of the new loan application as either borrowers or guarantors. In all instances the borrowers / guarantors must own or be purchasing (in the new loan application) 100% of the property and have exclusive use and occupation entitlement of the property used as supporting security collateral.|
|Property Ownership|Company title, Moiety title The borrowers / guarantors must own or be purchasing 100% of the shares associated with the specific unit offered as security and have exclusive use and occupation entitlement. Leasehold title The borrowers / guarantors must be the same as the lessee, of the portion offered as supporting security collateral and have exclusive use and occupation entitlement of the property used as supporting security collateral.|
|Interests / dealings on title|The title must be free of any mortgages, caveats, restrictive encumbrances, writs, notifications or dealings that will not be removed prior to or simultaneously at loan settlement Exceptions may apply: For Second Mortgages When approval has been granted by Credit (or other Credit Risk authorised staff)|
|Second Mortgage|Prior internal 1 mortgage Acceptable to remain on title. No additional policy rules or restrictions|

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

The conditions detailed under 'Second Mortgage behind other financial institution (OFI)' apply.

Prior external1 mortgage
Use of second mortgage may also be restricted by oper policies. Refer to:
Loan to value ratio>Assessing second mortgage
Guarantees
Specific Product Policies

Submissions to Credit (or other Credit Risk authorised staff)

When requesting approval for a mortgage, caveat, restrictive encumbrance, Writ, notification or dealing to remain on title, a copy of the title and dealing must be provided to support review and consideration of any limitations that the dealing may impose.

1 SGB, BSA, BoM and RAMS are considered to be other external providers/other financial institutions.

# 2.1.1 Second Mortgage behind other financial institution (OFI)

The Westpac Bank Group prefers to be the only mortgagee on a security property. There may be some instances where we may take a second mortgage, for example, where the second mortgage is covering a shortfall in security by the primary property (e.g. Family Security Guarantee loan option).

A second mortgage may be taken to cover a shortfall of security including a guarantee where the Primary security is being taken by / or is already held with Westpac Bank Group registered as the 1st mortgagee.

The below scenarios are excluded:

- If the existing 1st mortgage is for a reverse mortgage styled facility
- The 1st mortgagee is not a Financial institution, i.e. is a private mortgage provider. Private mortgage providers include but are not limited to an individual, a solicitor, vendor finance.
- LMI applies to the proposed loan and the first mortgage is not held by Westpac Bank

Note: SGB, BSA, BoM and RAMS are considered to be other external providers/other financial institutions.

Brokers should advise the applicant(s) that second mortgage scenarios may lead to longer settlement time frames that are outside of Westpac Bank Group's control. Delays can occur when we write to the prior mortgagee seeking consent to register the second mortgage and we ask the prior mortgagee to establish their priority amount.

For more information, refer to Loan to Value Ratio (LVR).

# 2.2 Assessing security collateral requirements - standard real estate

Refer to Loan to Value Ratio (LVR) policy to determine the maximum LVR and mortgage insurance availability for each security type.

The below table details additional policy rules to be applied when assessing standard real estate security collateral.

|Category|Additional policy rules|
|---|---|
|Property zone|The security property must be zoned to allow residential use without restriction, irrespective of the actual zoning type (Mixed Use, Rural Residential, Rural etc.)|
|Completed residential dwelling (e.g. detached house)|
|Off-the-plan unit purchase|Loan funds are not available for the purchase until the property has been completed. Progress payments will not be made during the construction period. Must also adhere to the standard requirements of a Unit.|
|Full Submission criteria|Full Submission is available when: - Construction will be completed within 3 months, and
- The valuer is able to inspect the security collateral, and
- The valuer 's commentary on the 'As if complete / on completion' valuation indicates they estimate construction will be complete within 3 months of the valuation completed date
|
|No more than 2 dwellings on a single title, refer to Loan to Value Ratio (LVR) > Assessing LVR by security type.|
|Direct vehicular access to property on appropriate all-weather surfaces for two-wheel drive vehicles|
|The property is to have power service connected, electricity (mains or off grid system), water and waste (tank or town, sewer or septic)|
|Minimum living floor area 40 square metres (excluding balconies and car spaces).|
|Must contain a minimum of 1 conventional bedroom (not studio / partitioned) full living facilities including standard kitchen and bathroom facilities and direct access.|
|The accommodation is purely standard residential catering for permanent occupancy only, i.e. not mixed use e.g. holiday or student accommodation.|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000682

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

The 'As if complete / on completion' can be rested on when the above is met

In Principle Approval criteria

Application must be assessed as an In Principle Approval where the 'Full Submission' criteria has not been met

Residential dwelling to be erected (e.g. licensed contract builder or owner builder)

- 'Residential dwelling to be erected' includes structural renovations such as additional rooms or floors and other significant changes.
- Excludes cosmetic changes such as internal or external painting, bathroom and kitchen renovations, pools, and landscaping.

Residential properties equal to or greater than 8 ha

|Minimum living floor area|40 square metres (excluding balconies and car spaces)|
|---|---|
| |Must contain full living facilities including standard kitchen and bathroom facilities.|
|The unit / development is standard residential catering for permanent occupancy only i.e. not mixed use, holiday or student accommodation| |
|Maximum exposure|no more than 4 properties in the same development or adjacent to each other owned by the same borrower group, refer to Loan to Value Ratio (LVR) > Assessing LVR by security type.|
|Units|Assessing LVR by security type.|
|Vacant land|Land area not more than 50 ha|
| |Residential use only - not farming or commercial use|
|Direct vehicular access to property on appropriate all weather surfaces for two-wheel drive vehicles| |

The primary purpose of the property is for residential occupancy

No more than 2 dwellings on a single title, refer Loan to Value Ratio (LVR) > Assessing LVR by security collateral type.

The property must have power service connected (mains electricity or off grid system), water (tank or town), sewage (mains sewage or septic)

Land to be improved (i.e. have an existing dwelling, or to be erected dwelling), minimum living floor area 40 square metres (excluding balconies)

Must contain a minimum of 1 conventional bedroom (not studio / partitioned) full living facilities including standard kitchen and bathroom facilities.

The accommodation is purely standard residential catering for permanent occupancy only, i.e. not mixed use, holiday or student accommodation

A satisfactory short form valuation is required.

If 'to be erected', the valuation to include confirmation that there are no restrictions against building a residential dwelling

Cash flow generated from non-residential activities carried out on the residential property (such as farming) is not to be included in a serviceability assessment.

Maximum land size is 50 ha

Where construction is considered 'unusual' for a consumer mortgage loan, the application must be referred to Credit.

'Unusual' includes, but is not limited to:

- More than 2 dwellings adjacent to each other, in the same strata plan, or on the same title, securing any consumer mortgage loan, refer Loan to Value Ratio (LVR) > Assessing LVR by security collateral type.
- Where the construction costs equate to more than 80% of the total end value of the property
- Where the property will have alternate electricity (not mains electricity or off grid system), alternate sewage (not mains sewage or septic) or alternate water source (not town water or rainwater tanks).
- The building site requires access (entry / exit) via crane or other, or is landlocked both during and on completion of construction.

Refer also to Construction loans.

- A full valuation is required to determine the security value for to-be-erected security, construction loans or any loans requiring progress payments.
- Direct vehicular access to property on appropriate all-weather surfaces for two-wheel drive vehicles
- The property is to have power service connected, electricity (mains or off grid system), water and waste (tank or town, sewer or septic)
- Minimum living floor area 40 square metres (excluding balconies).
- Must contain a minimum of 1 conventional bedroom (not studio / partitioned) full living facilities including standard kitchen and bathroom facilities and direct access.
- The accommodation is purely standard residential catering for permanent occupancy only i.e. not mixed use e.g. holiday or student accommodation.

Other matters for consideration

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000682

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

No more than 4 such properties in the same development or adjacent to each other owned by the same borrower, refer to Loan to Value Ratio (LVR) > Assessing LVR by security type.

# 2.3 Assessing security collateral requirements - non-standard unit developments

A non-standard unit development does not meet all the requirements of a standard unit development, refer Assessing security collateral requirements – standard real estate > Unit, and may include, but is not limited to:

- Hotel / motel / resort
- Serviced apartment or short stay accommodation
- Student accommodation
- Snow lease

All non-standard unit developments must be included in the Security Development Register (SDR).

# 2.4 Security Development Register (SDR)

For every Unit security collateral, you must manually check the Security Development Register (SDR) to see if the security development is listed.

The SDR includes:

- Units located in postcode categories 5 or 6
- Non-standard unit developments
- Unit developments with high exposure and/or risk

The Bank's total exposure against completed residential unit developments is limited to a maximum of:

- 30% of all the dwellings within the same development/complex/subdivision
- 20% Mortgage Insured exposure per development

The Bank's total exposure against completed residential dwellings is limited to a maximum of 30% of all the dwellings within the same development/complex/subdivision however Mortgage Insured exposure is restricted to 20% per development.

# 2.4.1 Checking the Security Development Register (SDR) for a listing

|Category|Action|
|---|---|
|Listed unit development|Follow the conditions / instructions in the register (e.g. development is not acceptable security, valuation requirement or perhaps LVR restriction).|
|Unlisted unit development|If the security unit is not in either a Postcode Category 5 (High Density) or 6 (High Risk) location, or Non-standard development in any postcode category location, refer Assessing security collateral requirements - non-standard development|

# 2.4.2 Non-standard development inclusion on the SDR

The Bank may accept a non-standard ‘unit’ development as acceptable residential security collateral where the unit / development displays the attributes in the table below and is approved by Retail Credit Risk prior to formal approval, refer Adding a development to the SDR.

|Category|Attributes|
|---|---|
|Property type|Property internal living area is minimum of 40 square metres (excluding balconies and car spaces). Units must contain full living facilities including standard kitchen and bathroom.|
|Occupancy|Permanent occupancy (i.e. not for a limited period each year) as a standard residence, is permitted by the local government. If property is under a lease / management agreement, the lease agreement is for a period that is less than 2 years (including options for renewal) and can be terminated without incurring penalties within 90 days' notice. Rental does not form part of a pooled rental income scheme or if it does, the scheme is optional.|
|Purchase contract|In all instances, a contract of sale must allow the bank to act on its security without limitations other than leaseback arrangements. i.e. right of permanent occupancy is not encumbered if there is a mortgagee sale|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000682

7/4/24, 10:58 AM WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

# 2.4.3 Adding a development to the SDR

Where it has been identified that a unit requires an SDR assessment, a request must be submitted to Retail Credit Risk before the application can be approved.

For the:

1. Security Development Register (SDR), and
2. SDR request form, which includes guidance on the supporting documents you must provide with the SDR referral request, and
3. Email address to submit the SDR request to

Refer to your Business Development Manager.

# 2.5 Assessing security collateral requirements-general

The below table details additional policy rules to be applied when assessing security collateral.

|Category|Additional requirements|
|---|---|
|Community title development|Including residential subdivisions containing golf course, vineyard, resort-style facilities|
| |A Company titled development must contain a minimum of 5 units within the development.|
| |A short form valuation in all cases for a new company title security or existing short form valuation for existing company title security collateral.|
| |Company title development Memorandum and articles of association of the company for all cases|
| |The company subclass in the ASIC search Home Unit Proprietary Company (not just Proprietary Company).|
| |Progress draw loans are not available with company title security collateral.|
|Conversions from other uses (industrial, commercial, hotel)|Residential short form valuation (use vacant possession value as the security value)|
| |Market rental figure in valuation to be used in serviceability test|
|Display homes|Leaseback term no greater than 2 years (including options for renewal)|
| |Lease document approved by Credit|
| |Security to be an Improved Home. Vacant land and car parks are unacceptable security collateral types|
| |Treated as owner builder Security value of the vacant land value and any improvement permanently attached The bank will not lend and advance any funds for purchase of the kit against value of the Kit home (unassembled) kit, or offsite construction costs. Refer to Construction loans.|
|Mixed residential and commercial property|Must be owner occupied (not investment security)|
| |A short form valuation for new over 55s security or existing short form valuation for existing over 55s security)|
| |No suggested restrictions on re-sale|
|Over 55s developments|Clear title obtained on the property by the purchaser|
| |The property is readily saleable on the open market|
| |The property is not part of a retirement village|
| |The property is not bound by a management agreement which restricts the ability of the owner to deal with the property|
|Serviced apartment|Short form valuation for all cases.|
| |Must be listed as acceptable on the SDR|
|Snow leases|Maximum term 20 years however the loan term cannot exceed or extend beyond the actual lease maturity date or term|
| |Principal and interest repayment only|

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000682

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Short form valuation for a new snow lease security, (existing short form valuation for existing snow lease security). Must be listed on the SDR

# Split contracts - single residential property constructions

# Split contracts - multi-unit residential developments

|Category|Policy Rules|
|---|---|
|Flood prone areas|Full flood cover insurance|
| |Satisfactory valuer or surveyor reports|
|Land slip area|If the valuer recommends a geo-technical report, you must inform the customer of this requirement before loan approval.|
|Mine subsidence|The bank will consider proposals where the property is within a prescribed mine subsidence area subject to valuer recommending the property as an acceptable security to the bank.|

Stratum title development - Long form valuation is required in all cases

Student accommodation - Short form valuation is required in all cases. Must be listed on the SDR

Progress draws where funds for the dwelling to be made on progress payment basis after the dwelling has been transported to site and services connected, (a progress inspection to confirm dwelling is on site is required prior to release of progress draw). All other progress draw loan requirements are to be met. Fixed to the site with all services connected (land on which located forms part of the security and over which a mortgage is to be registered). Refer to Construction loans.

Assessing security collateral impacted by geographical or environmental issues - Refer to Loan to Value Ratio (LVR) policy to determine the maximum LVR and mortgage insurance availability for each security type.

Assessing security collateral by location - Some locations have restricted LVRs or mortgage insurance availability. Refer to the Loan to Value Ratio (LVR) policy and Security Collateral Value policy to determine any location specific requirements.

Valuation with land and improvement apportionment when determining the market value on an 'as if complete' basis. The land is accessible by road and access roads have been constructed. The land is serviced by water, sewerage and electricity. The dwelling can be built on the land independently from other dwellings and such construction can occur at reasonable cost. The development approval does not prohibit independent construction. There are no restrictive covenants in relation to resale. Maximum LVR available will be dependent on other features of the security being offered.

Risk of split contract transaction: In all other cases the land may have no stand-alone value and cannot be taken as security due to the following risks:

- The purchaser may be required to enter into a building contract that will have common areas, party walls or common building foundations with other properties (i.e. a common builder is completing all dwellings and common property in the development)
- The land is not a saleable security. This could be for various reasons including the common property (roadways and access) have not been completed at the time of settlement; the land contract prohibits sale or transfer; there is no secondary market for the land due to size, access, restrictive covenants etc.
- When common property is involved (common roadways, common access ways and in particular common walls / slab) if the developer or builder ceases operation, Westpac Group will need to jointly engage with the remaining owners and financiers to complete the development. This is not an acceptable situation.

Note: 0% LVR applies during the construction period. Once these developments are fully complete, able to be occupied and individual titles issued, Westpac Group may accept these as security, as they would be considered readily saleable as a 'normal' house / townhouse / strata unit.

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000682

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

2.8 Assessing pird party security collateral
Third party security collateral is when pe Bank is offered security collateral from a person/s pat is not identical to pe borrower. For example:
The borrower is a company and security collateral is offered by pe company directors
The security collateral is owned by two people and is offered as security for a loan for only one of pose two people.
The bank does not take a pird party mortgage, but takes:
A first party mortgage from all mortgagors, and
A guarantee from pe mortgagors who are not borrowers. Under no circumstance is a pird party security collateral to be taken wipout a supporting guarantee.
Third party security must also comply wip Eligibility policy and Guarantee policy, to be considered acceptable security collateral

2.9 Assessing non-real estate security collateral
Refer to Loan to Value Ratio (LVR) policy to determine pe maximum LVR and mortgage insurance availability for each security type.
Refer to Security Collateral Value policy to determine pe market value of a term Deposit .

2.10 Assessing unacceptable security collateral
Refer to Loan to Value Ratio (LVR) policy >Unacceptable securities for furper details.

2.11 Assessing specialised security collateral
Specialised securities are homes under pe below unique housing schemes. Specialised security does not include non-standard developments.
National Rental Affordability Scheme (NRAS)
ACT asbestos affected homes ("Mr Fluffy")
NSW asbestos affected homes ("Mr Fluffy")
Homes for Homes (H4H)

2.11.1 National Disability Insurance Scheme (NDIS), Specialist Disability Accommodation (SDA) model
Special Disability Accommodation (SDA) is an accommodation model under pe government's National Disability Insurance Scheme (NDIS). This accommodation model is to assist people wip a disability who require specialist housing solutions.
NOTE: Use of NDIS, SDA properties as Security collateral is not available for consumer lending applications submitted by mortgage brokers.

2.11.2 Security under pe National Rental Affordability Scheme (NRAS)
NRAS is a government backed incentive scheme pat seeks to address pe shortage of affordable rental housing by offering financial incentives to build and rent dwellings to low and moderate income households at lower levels compared to market rates.
There are two distinct NRAS structures:
Head leases
Non-entity joint ventures (NEJV)
Refer to Loan to Value Ratio (LVR) policy to determine pe maximum LVR and mortgage insurance availability
NRAS type Requirement
NRAS properties can only be considered when pe NRAS consortium is on pe Bank's approved consortium list.
NRAS tax incentives are excluded from serviceability assessment
Maximum exposure of 25% in any NRAS individual development.
Loan amount $ for $ for refinance (plus any directly related refinance costs only) wip no cash out
A current residential full valuation or existing shortform valuation is required. Residential full valuations undertaken in all cases under standard valuer instructions - valuers to exclude any price premium pat may be attributable to NRAS
All NRAS (new purchase, loan increase or refinance) When assessing pe residential full valuation pere will be two values listed in pe valuation:
A value on pe Valex overview and pe first page of pe residential full valuation report from pe valuer.
A lower value in pe contents of pe residential full valuation report, normally under "Additional comments" and listed as pe "vacant possession" value.
In all cases pe lower vacant possession value must be used
Approval must be granted by Mortgage Credit and ALMI (in pe case of a mortgage insured application)
The Bank does not accept NRAS security taken via a substitution.
For specific NEJV or Head Lease requirements refer to pe specific NRAS structure in table below
Head Lease NRAS consortium must be on pe Approved Head Lease Consortium List
The security is a completed dwelling or house and land package
Construction loans are permitted for house & land packages where pe Contract of Sale for pe land purchase & Fixed Price Building Contract for construction are provided at pe time of loan approval
Vacant land purchases are unacceptable

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Rental income used for serviceability assessment reflects the consortium arrangement of a 25% discount on the normal market rent for the property.

In the case of NRAS security not currently owned or rented, the market rental stated on rental income verification documentation is to be discounted by 25%.

Rental income verification documentation is as per standard documentation policy see Verifying Income &gt; Rental Income

Where the security is being purchased:

- A fully completed, correctly witnessed 'NRAS Statutory Declaration of Financial and Legal Advice' has been provided by all borrowers prior to Unconditional Approval. The customer is to complete the declaration for the state in which the declaration is being made

Documentation and verification requirements must be met, as per ' Headlease NRAS specific documentation and verification requirements'

NRAS consortium must be on the Approved Non-Entity Joint Venture (NEJV) list

|Non - Entity Joint Venture (NEJV)|NEJV NRAS specific documentation and verification requirements|
|---|---|
|Mortgage Insured applications|The security is a completed dwelling or House and Land package or Building Contracts are Fixed Price (where the loan is to construct an NRAS security)|

Headlease -NRAS specific documentation and verification requirements

Approved Head Lease Consortiums

At this time applications cannot be accepted from any other consortiums

Brisbane Housing Company (BHC)

Note: Legal agreements require a Head Lease to be signed between BHC and the investor.

Chief Executive Officer (Housing) - NT Government

Headlease 1 version: Chief Executive Officer (Housing) - NT Government: Agreement to Lease between Landlord Probuild (NT) Pty Ltd (CAN 059 042 009) as trading for the PRO 6693 Unit Trust (ABN 45 347 431 135) and Tenant Chief Executive Officer (Housing) version dated 17/03/2014.

Providence Housing Pty Ltd

Note: Legal agreements require a Head Lease to be signed between Providence and the investor

Queensland Affordable Housing Consortium (QAHC) t/as National Affordable Housing Consortium (NAHC)

NAHC Expression of Interest (version date 111214)

NAHC Confirmation Letter

Both documents must be executed and the NAHC Expression of Interest must indicate the purchaser's selection of either a) Head Lease Model or b) NRAS Delivery Agreement Model (NEJV) as set out in the 'Reference Schedule' (page 2).

Headlease 1 version: QAHC HL 100616 or QAHC HL BC 100615

For all consortiums on this list

In all cases broker/assessor must forward the signed Head Lease1 to Credit for verification. Credit will verify that the Head Lease requirements above have been met

The blank headlease (where security is being purchased) or registered headlease (where security is unencumbered)

QAHC, BHC and Providence administered NRAS security is insured under a Group insurance policy. For insurance standards - see Property insurance.

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Approved NEJV Consortiums|NRAS specific documentation and verification requirements|
|---|---|
|Queensland Affordable Housing Consortium (QAHC) t/as National Affordable Housing Consortium (NAHC)|NEJV agreement (version 9) for United Vietnamese Buddhist Congregation of Canberra & Surrounding Districts Inc (UVBCC)|
|United Vietnamese Buddhist Congregation of Canberra & Surrounding Districts Inc (UVBCC)| |
|Affordable Community Housing Ltd trading as Evolve Housing| |
|Affordable Housing Consulting Pty Ltd ('AHC')| |
|Affordable Management Corporation (AMC)| |
|Aspire Housing Group| |
|Australian Residential Investment Fund (Formally Questus)| |
|Coast2Bay Housing Group Ltd| |
|Community Housing Canberra Limited (CHC)| |
|Crown Properties Pty Ltd| |
|Ethan Affordable Housing| |
|Loddon Mallee Housing Services| |
|McKenzie Bond Pty Ltd (MB)| |
|Mission Australia Housing Limited (MAHL)| |
|Providence Housing Pty Ltd| |
|Quantum Housing Group (QHG)| |
|Tremplin Limited| |
|Urban Affordable Housing Association (UAHA) via company structure '4 Walls Ltd'| |
|Yaran Residential Investments Pty Ltd| |

ACT asbestos affected homes ("Mr Fluffy")

Individual owners have been written to by the ACT Government outlining a government buy back offer.

This is due to ongoing public health and safety risks posed by the continuing presence of loose fill asbestos insulation in Canberra homes.

Participation in the Buyback Program is voluntary and eligible home owners must lodge an application directly with the ACT Government taskforce by Tuesday, 30 June 2015.

If the owners take up the ACT Government offer, the intent is to demolish dwellings and remove the contamination then return the previously affected blocks back to the market for resale, with former owners (shown as at Tuesday, 28 October 2014 as the offer is not transferable), having a first right of refusal to purchase the affected block (at full market value, to be determined at the time of purchase) after it is remediated. Owners will be compensated by way of the ACT Government engaging two API accredited valuers to determine a market value of the property as if it were not affected by the loose fill asbestos, in order to establish the amount to be paid as 'buy back'.

(Refer ACT Government web site for further background information. http://www.act.gov.au/asbestos-response-taskforce.)

For the security to be acceptable the following conditions must be met:

There is no current market for the sale and purchase of affected homes and therefore affected properties have a nil lending value until the ACT Government offer is made and accepted by the owners (as shown as at 28/10/14).

NAHC Expression of Interest (version date 111214)

NAHC Confirmation Letter

Both documents must be executed and the NAHC Expression of Interest must indicate the purchaser's selection of either a) Head Lease Model or b) NRAS Delivery Agreement Model (NEJV) as set out in the 'Reference Schedule' (page 2).

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000682

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Only pe ACT Government agreed security value is to be used as pe security assessment. No oper security assessment is to be relied on.
A copy of pe ACT Government offer must be held as pe security assessment.
Proof pe ACT Government offer has been accepted by pe customer must be held prior to full approval.
All Government conditions must be met e.g. customer can only be pe registered owner as at 28/10/2014 as pe offer is not transferable.

2.11.4 NSW asbestos affected homes ("Mr Fluffy")

In NSW, owners have two options:

a) Under Option 1, homeowners will be offered pe value of pe whole property (land and improvements).
b) Under Option 2, homeowners will be offered pe value of pe whole property minus pe value of pe land. For rural properties, homeowners will be offered pe value of pe affected premises and any building or structures on its curtilage. The curtilage is pe area, usually enclosed, pat encompasses pe grounds and buildings immediately surrounding pe premises pat are used in daily domestic activities. The effect of pis process is pat homeowners are offered pe value of pe affected premises by itself.

Refer NSW Government web page for further information.

http://www.fairtrading.nsw.gov.au/ftw/Tenants_and_home_owners/Loose_fill_asbestos_insulation/Voluntary_purchase_and_demolition_program/Demolition_and_r

a) If the customer accepts option 1.

Sale and discharge proceeds as normal.

b) If the customer accepts option 2.

1. Customer is required as part of the scheme to provide 'written confirmation from any financial institution that holds an interest over the property that acknowledges my/our intent to proceed with Option 2.' to the scheme, i.e. Customer will contact the Bank to advise they have accepted option 2.
2. Consents team will receive customer notification and will acknowledge receipt to the customer.
3. Customer will then provide signed License Agreement to the Bank
4. When the funds from the scheme are received, the loan balance and limit will be reduced to a maximum of 80% of land value in the original NSW Government offer (i.e. NSW Government agreed security value for the land).
5. For re-construction of the property, a new construction loan will be required once customer has identified a builder. All normal lending criteria applies and the new Progress Draw loan will be processed as normal.

Other information

For the security to be acceptable the following conditions must be met:

- There is no current market for the sale and purchase of affected homes and therefore affected house / unit properties have a nil lending value until the building is demolished and removed.
- Only the NSW Government agreed security value for the land is to be used as the security assessment. No other security assessment is to be relied on. The only exception to the acceptance of the land value is where customers wishes to purchase another property prior to receiving the purchase proceeds from the NSW Government and needs to fund all or part of the purchase price of the new property via a bridging loan from the Bank. The bridging loan should be processed with the following criteria:
- Customer must show evidence that they have accepted the NSW Government offer option 2 (sale of house and land) via signed License Agreement.
- The security value of the asbestos affected property is the value listed in the NSW Government offer.
- A copy of the NSW Government offer must be held as the security assessment.

2.11.5 Homes for Homes (H4H)

Homes for Homes (H4H) is a social housing initiative established by The Big Issue that will generate funds by encouraging developers and home owners to pledge a small percentage of the sale proceeds of their home (approx. 0.1%).

Standard policy rules apply for H4H properties. Refer to Homes for Homes (H4H) process for specific processes.

3. Process to follow

3.1 Home for Homes (H4H)

Participation in the H4H scheme is voluntary for our customers and they can opt-out at any time. The scheme has been rolled out to all states in Australia. To facilitate this process, the owners execute a Deed of Donation with Homes for Homes who lodge a permissive caveat on the title. To register a Transfer of Ownership or Mortgage, consent from Homes for Homes will be required to be provided to the LTO with our settlement documents for lodgement.

The type of consent required by the LTO to accept the lodgement of our documents is specific to each state. To assist team members with understanding what information is required at settlement, a state based requirements matrix has been created.

Where our customer does not wish to donate, they can request the Withdrawal of Caveat from the charity, which will need to be provided at settlement if the customer would like the bank to lodge it as part of our lodgement documents.

Homes for Homes matrix

Brokers are to advise the customer to contact Homes for Homes and request the documents required as outlined in Homes for Homes Matrix. The originals or a copy of the documents are to be provided to Home Ownership Services prior to settlement.

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|State|Prevents|Letter of Consent requirements|
|---|---|---|
|WA|Caveat/Charge does not prevent the lodgement of any instruments as instructed by the Charity Homes for Homes|Letter of Consent is not required in WA as the Caveat does not prevent the lodgement of any instruments. This includes the Transfer of Land and the Mortgage. A paper Withdrawal of Caveat can be lodged with accompanying instruments (i.e. Transfer and/or Mortgage etc.). The paper withdrawal can be requested by our customer (for a purchase or refinance) by emailing enquiries@homesforhomes.org.au. Note: an Accept Paper Lodgement form is required for paper lodgements. Electronic lodgement is required for a standalone requests (i.e. no accompanying instruments to be registered). The registered proprietor as shown on title, can request the Caveat to be withdrawn by email to: enquiries@homesforhomes.org.au|
|VIC|Prevents the lodgement of Transfer of Land Mortgage can be registered with no Letter of Consent required (i.e. Letter of Consent is not required for a Refinance where only a mortgage is to be lodged)|The Letter of Consent is not available for Victoria. The Caveat/Charge is to be discharged from title for the lodgement of a Transfer, and will be re-lodged by the charities representative post the lodgement of the Transfer. A paper process is not available in Victoria due to the mandated use of electronic lodgement for the Withdrawal of Caveat form. A request for the caveat to be removed can be requested by our customer by email to: enquiries@homesforhomes.org.au. The Homes for Homes representative will attend to the Withdrawal of Caveat via electronic lodgement. Title check will need to be completed prior to settlement (or TAC in PEXA) to ensure Caveat is removed prior to completing settlement. Where the incoming purchaser wishes to participate in the charity, a new Caveat will be lodged post settlement. Note: If the caveat is being withdrawn as part of the settlement lodgement case the caveat will appear in the TAC in PEXA|
|NSW|Prevents the lodgement of Transfer of Land Mortgage can be registered with no Letter of Consent required (i.e. Letter of Consent is not required for a Refinance where only a mortgage is to be lodged)|Original Letter of Consent is required for the lodgement of a Transfer. The letter can be obtained from the charity by email to: enquiries@homesforhomes.org.au. A paper Withdrawal of Caveat can be lodged with accompanying instruments (i.e. Transfer and/or Mortgage etc.). The paper withdrawal can be requested by our customer (for a purchase or refinance) by emailing enquiries@homesforhomes.org.au. Note: a Rules Exemption Form is required for paper lodgements. Electronic lodgement required for a standalone requests (i.e. no accompanying instruments to be registered). The registered proprietor as shown on title, can request the Caveat to be withdrawn by email to: enquiries@homesforhomes.org.au. NSW Land Registry Services require a Homes for Homes Consent letter be submitted where a transfer is involved. The original Letter of Consent can be requested at any time from the Charity and submitted as part of the transfer settlement lodgement case. Where only a Mortgage is to be lodged, a Caveat/Charge on a New South Wales title will appear on a Title Activity Check (TAC) however will not impact the PEXA lodgement. The settlement/document|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000682

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

lodgement can proceed in PEXA as normal

A Caveat/Charge on a South Australia title will appear on a title activity check (TAC) however will not impact PEXA.

A paper Withdrawal of Caveat can be lodged with accompanying instruments (i.e. Transfer and/or Mortgage etc.). The paper withdrawal can be requested by our customer (for a purchase or refinance) by emailing enquiries@homesforhomes.org.au. Electronic lodgement required for a standalone requests (i.e. no accompanying instruments to be registered). The registered proprietor as shown on title, can request the Caveat to be withdrawn by email. Where the Caveat/Charge is to be withdrawn as part of the PEXA settlement, Homes for Homes will confirm who their legal representative is, and request the lender/vendors representative to invite their representative to a PEXA Workspace to withdraw Caveat.

The Caveat prevents the lodgement of Transfers without a Letter of Consent. An emailed copy or an original Letter of Consent is required where a Transfer is to be lodged (i.e. required for purchase settlements or change of ownership).

A paper Withdrawal of Caveat can be lodged with accompanying instruments (i.e. Transfer and/or Mortgage etc.). The paper withdrawal can be requested by our customer (for a purchase or refinance) by emailing enquiries@homesforhomes.org.au. Electronic lodgement required for a standalone requests (i.e. no accompanying instruments to be registered). The registered proprietor as shown on title, can request the Caveat to be withdrawn by email to: enquiries@homesforhomes.org.au.

Settlements in PEXA are not available

# Change History

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|1|3 November 2021|First OBP issue online for Brokers on the OKA platform.|
|2|4 November 2021|Updated SDR publication 04NOV2021|
|3|11 November 2021|Updated SDR publication 11NOV2021|
|4|18 November 2021|Updated SDR publication 18NOV2021|
|5|25 November 2021|Updated SDR publication 25NOV2021|
|6|2 December 2021|Updated SDR publication 02DEC2021|

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000682

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|7|9 December 2021|Updated SDR publication 09DEC2021|
|8|16 December 2021|Updated SDR publication 15DEC2021|
|9|23 December 2021|Updated SDR publication 23DEC2021|
|10|30 December 2021|Updated SDR publication 29DEC2021|
|11|06 January 2022|Updated SDR publication 06JAN2022|
|12|20 January 2022|Updated SDR publication 20JAN2022|
|13|31 January 2022|Updated SDR publication 27JAN2022|
|14|03 February 2022|Updated SDR publication 03FEB2022|
|15|10 February 2022|Updated SDR publication 10FEB2022|
|16|17 February 2022|Updated SDR publication 17FEB2022|
|17|24 February 2022|Updated SDR publication 24FEB2022|
|18|3 March 2022|Updated SDR publication 03MAR2022|
|19|10 March 2022|Updated SDR publication 10MAR2022|
|20|17 March 2022|Updated SDR publication 17MAR2022|
|21|24 March 2022|Updated SDR publication 24MAR2022|
|22|31 March 2022|Updated SDR publication 31MAR2022|
|23|7 April 2022|Updated SDR publication 07APR2022|
|24|14 April 2022|Updated SDR publication 14APR2022|
|25|21 April 2022|Updated SDR publication 20APR2022|
|26|28 April 2022|Updated SDR publication 27APR2022|
|27|5 May 2022|Updated SDR publication 05MAY2022|
|28|12 May 2022|Updated SDR publication 12MAY2022|
|29|19 May 2022|Updated SDR publication 19MAY2022|
|30|22 May 2022|General rewrite to remove procedures from policy and improve policy clarity|
|31|26 May 2022|Updated SDR publication 26MAY2022|
|32|2 June 2022|Updated SDR publication 02JUN2022|
|33|9 June 2022|Updated SDR publication 09JUN2022|
|34|16 June 2022|Updated SDR publication 16JUN2022|
|35|23 June 2022|Updated SDR publication 23JUN2022|
|36|30 June 2022|Updated SDR publication 30JUN2022|
|37|7 July 2022|Updated SDR publication 07JUL2022|

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|38|15 July 2022|Updated SDR publication 15JUL/2022|
|39|21 July 2022|Updated SDR publication 21JUL2022|
|40|28 July 2022|Updated SDR publication 28JUL2022|
|41|4 August 2022|Updated SDR publication 04AUG2022|
|42|18 August 2022|Updated SDR publication 18AUG2022|
|43|25 August 2022|Updated SDR publication 25AUG2022|
|44|1 September 2022|Updated SDR publication 01SEP2022|
|45|8 September 2022|Updated SDR publication 08SEP2022|
|46|15 September 2022|Updated SDR publication 15SEP2022|
|47|23 September 2022|Updated SDR publication 23SEP2022|
|48|29 September 2022|Updated SDR publication 29SEP2022|
|49|6 October 2022|Updated SDR publication 06OCT2022|
|50|13 October 2022|Updated SDR publication 13OCT2022|
|51|20 October 2022|Updated SDR publication 20OCT2022|
|52|27 October 2022|Updated SDR publication 27OCT2022|
|53|3 November 2022|Updated SDR publication 03NOV2022|
|54|10 November 2022|Updated SDR publication 10NOV2022|
|55|17 November 2022|Updated SDR publication 17NOV2022|
|56|24 November 2022|Updated SDR publication 24NOV2022|
|57|1 December 2022|Updated SDR publication 01DEC2022|
|58|8 December 2022|Updated SDR publication 08DEC2022|
|59|15 December 2022|Updated SDR publication 15DEC2022|
|60|22 December 2022|Updated SDR publication 22DEC2022|
|61|5 January 2023|Updated SDR publication 05JAN2023|
|62|12 January 2023|Updated SDR publication 12JAN2023|
|63|19 January 2023|Updated SDR publication 19JAN2023|
|64|27 January 2023|Updated SDR publication 27JAN2023|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000682

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|65|2 February 2023|Updated SDR publication 02FEB2023|
|66|9 February 2023|Updated SDR publication 09FEB2023|
|67|16 February 2023|Updated SDR publication 16FEB2023|
|68|23 February 2023|Updated SDR publication 23FEB2023|
|69|2 March 2023|Updated SDR Publication 02MAR2023|
|70|9 March 2023|Updated SDR publication 09 MAR 2023|
|71|16 March 2023|Updated SDR publication 16Mar2023|
|72|23 March 2023|Updated SDR publication 23MAR2023|
|73|30 March 2023|Updated SDR publication 30MAR2023|
|74|6 April 2023|Updated SDR publication 06APR2023|
|75|13 April 2023|Updated SDR publication 13APR2023|
|76|20 April 2023|Updated SDR publication 20APR2023|
|77|27 April 2023|Updated SDR publication 27APR2023|
|78|4 May 2023|Updated SDR publication 04MAY2023|
|79|11 May 2023|Updated SDR publication 11MAY2023|
|80|18 May 2023|Updated SDR publication 18MAY2023|
|81|21 May 2023|2.11.2.2 NEJV - NRAS specific documentation and verification requirements Corrections to NRAS consortiums table|
|82|25 May 2023|Updated SDR publication 25MAY2023|
|83|1 June 2023|Updated SDR publication 01JUN2023|
|84|8 June 2023|Updated SDR publication 08JUN2023|
|85|15 June 2023|Updated SDR publication 15JUN2023|
|86|22 June 2023|Updated SDR publication 22JUN2023|
|87|29 June 2023|Updated SDR publication 29JUN2023|
|88|2 July 2023|Removed Reference to Purple Title from “Certificate of title” section as security/collateral is no longer acceptable|
|89|6 July 2023|Updated SDR publication 06JUL2023|
|90|13 July 2023|Updated SDR publication 13JUL2023|
|91|20 July 2023|Updated SDR publication 20JUL2023|
|92|27 July 2023|Updated SDR publication 27JUL2023|
|93|3 August 2023|Updated SDR publication 03AUG2023|
|94|10 August 2023|Updated SDR publication 10AUG2023|
|95|17 August 2023|Updated SDR publication 17AUG2023|

Link to the original document

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|96|24 August 2023|Updated SDR publication 24AUG2023|
|97|31 August 2023|Updated SDR publication 31AUG2023|
|98|7 September 2023|Updated SDR publication 07SEP2023|
|99|14 September 2023|Updated SDR publication 14SEP2023|
|100|21 September 2023|Updated SDR publication 21SEP2023|
|101|28 September 2023|Updated SDR publication 28SEP2023|
|102|5 October 2023|Updated SDR publication 05OCT2023|
|103|12 October 2023|Updated SDR publication 12OCT2023|
|104|19 October 2023|Updated SDR publication 19 Oct 2023|
|105|26 October 2023|Updated SDR publication 26OCT2023|
|106|2 November 2023|Updated SDR publication 02NOV2023|
|107|9 November 2023|Updated SDR publication 09NOV2023|
|108|16 November 2023|Updated SDR publication 16NOV2023|
|109|19 November 2023|Change 1 The following sections have been reworded slightly to simplify and remove unnecessary / duplicated content: 1.2 What is residential real estate security collateral 2.1 Certificate of title 2.2 Assessing security collateral requirements – standard real estate Change 2 Reworded and moved section ‘Assessing security collateral requirements – non-standard development’ from section 2.4 to section 2.3 Reworded and moved section ‘Security Development Register (SDR)’ from section 2.3 to section 2.4 New sub-section 2.4.1 created for existing content ‘Checking the Security Development Register (SDR) for listing’ which has been reworded slightly to clearly clarify the requirements for listed and unlisted units Reworded and moved section ‘Non-standard development inclusion on the SDR’ from section 2.4.3 to section 2.4.2 Reworded and moved section ‘Adding a development to the SDR’ from section 2.3.1 to section 2.4.3 Deleted sub-section 2.4.1 ‘Non-standard development definition’ with content re-worded and included in section Assessing security collateral requirements - non-standard development Deleted sub-section 2.4.2 ‘Responsibilities’|
|110|23 November 2023|Updated SDR publication 23NOV2023|
|111|30 November 2023|Updated SDR publication 30NOV2023|
|112|7 December 2023|Updated SDR publication 07DEC2023|
|113|14 December 2023|Updated SDR publication 14DEC2023|
|114|21 December 2023|Updated SDR publication 21DEC2023|

Link to full document

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|115|4 January 2024|Updated SDR publication 04JAN2024|
|116|11 January 2024|Updated SDR publication 11JAN2024|
|117|18 January 2024|Updated SDR publication 18JAN2024|
|118|25 January 2024|Updated SDR publication 25JAN2024|
|119|1 February 2024|Updated SDR publication 01FEB2024|
|120|8 February 2024|Updated SDR publication 08FEB2024|
|121|15 February 2024|Updated SDR publication 15FEB2024|
|122|18 February 2024|Change 1 Removed the requirement for a unit to have a minimum of 1 conventional bedroom (not studio or a partitioned space) Change 2 Updated the “Property Ownership” section of Certificate of title. Old content: A purchase of a part ownership share in a property cannot be considered when all owners of the security collateral offered, are a borrower or the new loan application as either borrowers or guarantors. New content A purchase of a part ownership share in a property cannot be considered when all owners of the security collateral offered, are not part of the new loan application as either borrowers or guarantors.|
|123|22 February 2024|Updated SDR publication 22FEB2024|
|124|29 February 2024|Updated SDR publication 29FEB2024|
|125|7 March 2024|Updated SDR publication 07MAR2024|
|126|14 March 2024|Updated SDR publication 14MAR2024|
|127|21 March 2024|Updated SDR publication 21MAR2024|
|128|28 March 2024|Updated SDR publication 28MAR2024|
|129|4 April 2024|Updated SDR publication 04APR2024|
|130|11 April 2024|Updated SDR publication 11APR2024|
|131|18 April 2024|Updated SDR publication 18APR2024|
|132|26 April 2024|Updated SDR publication 26APR2024|
|133|2 May 2024|Updated SDR publication 02MAY2024|
|134|9 May 2024|Updated SDR publication 09MAY2024|
|135|16 May 2024|Updated SDR publication 16MAY2024|
|136|23 May 2024|Updated SDR publication 23MAY2024|
|137|30 May 2024|Updated SDR publication 30MAY2024|
|138|6 June 2024|Updated SDR publication 30MAY2024Updated SDR publication 06JUN2024|
|139|13 June 2024|Updated SDR publication 13JUN2024|
|140|21 June 2024|Updated SDR publication 21JUN2024|
|141-142|26 June 2024|Link corrections - no policy changes|

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000682

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|143|27 June 2024|Updated SDR publication 27JUN2024|
|144|4 July 2024|Updated SDR publication 04JUL2024|

Attachments

03.02 Security Development Register.xlsm

Comment on this policy

Comment on this policy

Rate this policy

Published Date 04/07/2024

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000682

19/19