# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Home | View Westpac Consumer Mortgages OBP Credit Policies | Contact Us

03.15 Property Insurance

This policy contains commercially sensitive and confidential information. No part should be made available in any form whether printed, electronic or otherwise, outside the Westpac Group without approval from Westpac Legal or Regulatory affairs.*** This document is an UNCONTROLLED copy and is subject to change without prior notification. It is only valid at the date of extract. ***

# Table of Contents

1. About this policy
2. 1.1 Why this policy?
3. Rules you must apply
4. 2.1 Responsibilities
5. 2.2 When and what cover is required?
6. 2.3 Insurance policy details (Certificate of Currency)

# About this policy

# 1.1 Why this policy?

The Bank requires acceptable building insurance cover on a replacement and reinstatement basis over the real estate property used as security collateral for the loan. Insurance cover will protect the value of the secured asset in the event the owner and Bank is required to rely upon it. Adequate insurance cover is to be maintained for the duration of the loan.

# Rules you must apply

# 2.1 Responsibilities

It is the responsibility of the borrower to:

- Take up the building insurance cover prior to loan settlement with an Australian insurer
- Take out any other insurances required by policy, such as builder’s risk insurance
- Negotiate with the insurer on the minimum cover amount with a recommendation of full replacement cost
- Have a current or renew building insurance policy during the loan contract term. Failure to do so is a breach under the terms of the contract and mortgage by borrower/ mortgagor.

The Bank cannot suggest a minimum amount the property must be insured for.

# 2.2 When and what cover is required?

|Security Property Collateral Type|When is the cover required|What cover is required|
|---|---|---|
|Strata Title|This property insurance policy does not apply. If security collateral is of a different type, comply with the below policy| |
|Vacant land security collateral where the Bank is relying solely on the (vacant) land value| | |

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Security Property Collateral Type|When is the cover required|What cover is required|
|---|---|---|
|Completed (not under construction) property|Prior to settlement|Building insurance policy|
|Property under construction- Licensed Builder|Prior to final progress payment being released|Builder’s risk insurance which must: - During construction be taken out by the owner builder cover the building work|
|Property under construction- Owner Builder|Prior to final progress payment being released|Builder’s risk insurance which must: - During periods of manufacture (Kit), transport/delivery (Kit and Transportable), and construction cover the whole period until practical completion (lock up)|
|Property under construction- Kit Homes/Transportable Homes|Prior to settlement (first advance)|Building insurance policy or certificate of currency|

Must:

- be on a replacement and reinstatement basis for an amount at least equal the full replacement cost, and
- cover against fire, storm, flood cover in flood-prone areas and other risks as might be specified

The Progressive Draw / document preparation / settlements team must ensure that evidence of the required insurance(s) is held

# Insurance policy details (Certificate of Currency)

The copy of the Insurance Policy or Certificate of Currency must include the following:

Link to more information

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

The owner of pe security collateral (upon settlement / drawdown)
Policy number
Insurance company
Expiry date of pe policy
Adequate description of pe location of pe security collateral, e.g. address, title details
Amount of cover on a replacement and reinstatement basis for an amount at least equal to pe full replacement cost

# Change History

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|1|3 November 2021|First OBP issue online for Brokers on the OKA platform.|
|2|10 November 2021|Links updated|
|3|20 November 2022|Policy Standards and Procedure rewrite|
|4|19 February 2023|Remove Document requirement for Banks Interest as Mortgagee to be noted on Insurance policy|

Comment on this policy

Comment on this policy

Rate this policy

Published Date: 19/02/2023

Link to Policy Details