WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Home | View Westpac Consumer Mortgages OBP Credit Policies | Contact Us

03.14 Non-Resident Lending

This policy contains commercially sensitive and confidential information. No part should be made available in any form whether printed, electronic or otherwise, outside the Westpac Group without approval from Westpac Legal or Regulatory affairs.*** This document is an UNCONTROLLED copy and is subject to change without prior notification. It is only valid at the date of extract. ***

Table of Contents

# 1. About this policy

1.1 Why this policy

This policy outlines the parameters for assessing loan applications that involves non-resident borrower(s) in a consumer mortgage application.

# 2. Rules you must apply

2.1 Definitions of non-residents lending

2.2 Establishing citizenship / residency status

# 1. About this policy

# 1.1 Why this policy

This policy outlines the parameters for assessing loan applications that involves non-resident borrower(s) in a consumer mortgage application.

# 2. Rules you must apply

# 2.1 Definitions of non-residents lending

For residential lending purposes a non-resident individual is defined as:

- A person who does not hold Australian Citizenship or approved Australian Permanent residency visa, or
- A person who does hold an approved Australian Temporary residency visa however does not ordinarily reside in Australia

Note:

- New Zealand citizens living in Australia are not considered non-residents for the purposes of this policy
- This policy does not apply to migrant applicants. Refer to Migrant Lending policy for further information

Link to the original document

Where any one or more borrower or guarantor meets the definition of ‘non-resident’, none of the below lending activities are permitted, even if the ’non-resident’s’ income is not relied on to meet serviceability:

- New loan
- For existing loans involving a non-resident borrower or guarantor:
- Loan Increase/Top Up
- Refinance
- Cash out
- Servicing (Variation) activity that requires a loan origination (as refinance is not permitted)

No exceptions to the above are permitted by any credit risk authority holder (including Credit).

Establishing citizenship / residency status

Non-resident status may be identified where a foreign passport is presented for identification purposes or the applicant(s) is identified as residing overseas. A customer’s citizenship, visa type or non-residency status must be established at initial application stage.

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|1|3 November 2021|First OBP issue online for Brokers on the OKA platform.|
|2|10 November 2021|Links updated|
|3|2 October 2022|Removal of 03.14 Acceptable country & currency list.pdf - will now be attached in 03.27 Verifying Income|

Comment on this policy

Rate this policy

Published Date: 02/10/2022

Source