# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Table of Contents

- 1. About this policy
- 1.1 Why this policy
- 2. Rules you must apply
- 2.1 Establishing citizenship and residency
- 2.2 Migrant lending
- 2.3 Eligibility criteria
- 2.4 Income and employment verification
- 2.5 Own contribution validation
- 2.6 Document translation
- 2.7 Applications with multiple applicants and varying visa types, citizenship or residency status
- 2.8 Approval from foreign investment review board (FIRB)
- 2.9 Visa matrix and Applicant via Resident Type Matrix Overview
- 2.10 Visa Matrix
- 2.10.1 Acceptable Visas
- 2.10.2 Unacceptable Visas
- 2.11 Applicant via Resident type matrix
- 2.12 Non-Resident Lending
- 3. Process to follow
- 3.1 Migrant lending package application process
- 3.2 Evidencing migrant visa

# 1. About this policy

1.1 Why this policy

This policy will help you identify an applicant’s residency status and determine if the application for consumer mortgage lending can proceed.

# 2. Rules you must apply

2.1 Establishing citizenship and residency status

A customer’s citizenship, residency or non-residency status must be established at initial application stage for all consumer mortgage loans.

For applicants who are:

- Australian citizens who reside in Australia, or out of Australia on either a temporary or permanent basis (i.e. Australian expat), refer to Eligibility policy &gt; Australian Citizen residency status
- New Zealand citizens, or they hold a permanent or temporary residency visa issued by the Australian government, refer to Migrant Lending

Link to original document

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Non-Resident lending
Where pe above scenarios do not apply to pe applicant, refer Non-Resident lending, pis will include applicants who:
- are not an Australian or New Zealand citizen, or
- do not hold eiper a permanent or temporary residency visa issued by pe Australian government, or
- hold a temporary visa issued by pe Australian government, but reside out of Australia

2.2 Migrant lending

A migrant is defined as an individual pat has been granted an Australian government residence visa (temporary or permanent) for entry into Australia, i.e.:
- A permanent residence visa allows a person unrestricted working rights in Australia and pey can remain in Australia indefinitely.
- A temporary residence visa allows a person to live in Australia for a limited time only and pey may have restricted working rights.

Eligible migrant applicants may be able to access consumer mortgage loan lending for owner occupied or investment purpose, refer to:

- Eligibility criteria
- Loan to Value Ratio (LVR) > LVR by borrower type and income source for maximum allowable LVR
- Applicant via Resident Type matrix for any additional conditions

Normal credit underwriting standards including serviceability and verification rules apply. If the loan application requires and is acceptable for mortgage insurance, refer to Lenders Mortgage Insurance where required.

2.3 Eligibility criteria

- Migrant lending policy is available to applicants that meet the following criteria:
- The applicant’s permanent or temporary visa must be listed as an acceptable migrant visa type and number within the Acceptable Visa matrix
- Applicant’s employment status and income are compliant with the Acceptable Visa matrix
- A copy of the migrant’s passport and evidence of Australian visa details (excluding the Australian visa number) must be obtained and held on file. Where the applicant:
- - Does not hold a passport (e.g. a refugee may only hold a Protection visa subclass 866), the application may be referred to Credit for further consideration.
- Has an expired passport but holds a permanent residence visa and resides in Australia, a copy of the expired passport, supported by a copy of the current visa is acceptable.

Certain migrant visa holders may not have access to all products and reference must be made to the Applicant via Resident Type matrix prior to providing a product.
- Applicants who hold a:

2.4 Income and employment verification

- Where the application includes foreign income, or Australian Dollar (AUD) income from foreign PAYG employment, refer to and follow the requirements in:
- Verifying Income > Foreign income and / or employment
- Loan to Value Ratio (LVR) policy > LVR by borrower type and income source and
- Applicant via Resident Type matrix

2.5 Own contribution validation

Link to the original document

7/4/24, 11:03 AM                                                                        WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy
Funds to complete or own contribution is generally considered to be the shortfall between the purchase price
(inclusive of legal and stamp duty) and the loan being provided by the Bank.

Some migrant visa holders must provide evidence of their funds to complete / own contribution via account
statements, to confirm that the source of funds is from a genuine financial institution (e.g. bank), refer Applicant
via Resident Type matrix

Note: Where the account statement(s) does not evidence the full funds to complete / own contribution, it is
acceptable to proceed, where a satisfactory explanation is entered in application supporting notes, e.g. the
applicant has paid a deposit on the property being purchased and where combined with funds evidenced via
account statements, confirms funds to complete / own contribution.

2.6 Document translation
In the event foreign income and other supporting documents (e.g. account statements used to verify
own contribution) are not in English or display a currency other than AUD, refer to Document Standards policy
> When supporting documents are not in English or display a currency other than AUD.

The original documents, translated documents and Foreign currency translation checklist are to be retained in
the loan file.

2.7 Applications with multiple applicants and varying visa types, citizenship or
residency status
Where there are joint / multiple applicants, all applicants must be eligible as per policy requirements, regardless
of their contribution to the loan, i.e. if the applicant type or visa held is not acceptable to the bank then the
individual cannot to be a borrower, guarantor or owner of the security property. The following additional
conditions apply:
The LVR may be restricted based on the visa type of the co-applicant.
Loan applications with multiple borrowers on the loan but only a single title holder are not permitted where
one or more of the applicants is currently, or will continue to reside overseas post settlement. No financial
benefit can be demonstrated for an applicant(s) that will continue to reside overseas post settlement, where
they have no ownership in the security collateral.
Refer to Visa matrix and Applicant via Resident Type matrix for restrictions affecting each applicant type and
to identify if mortgage insurance is available.

2.8 Approval from foreign investment review board (FIRB)
Holders of Australian temporary residency visas require approval from the Federal Government Treasury –
Foreign Investment Review Board (FIRB). It is the responsibility of the purchaser to ensure approval is held.

Where the borrower is, or will be on the title, a copy of the FIRB approval must be held prior to issuing a formal
approval. The loan application must be validated against the FIRB approval to ensure the application complies
with the conditions under which the FIRB approval was issued.

FIRB exception: The only allowable exception to the FIRB requirement is where the applicant is purchasing or
owns a property as Joint Tenants* (50/50), with an Australian or New Zealand citizen, or a Permanent Resident,
who is their spouse.

* The exception does not apply where the property ownership is Tenants in Common (e.g. 80/20).

Where the applicant lives and works overseas and FIRB indicates approval is for their principal place of
residence # , then the property:
1. Must be their principal place of residence while in Australia.
2. Cannot be used for investment (rental) or holiday purposes and rental income against this property is not
acceptable.

Notes:
In some cases FIRB approval is granted to a specific development. The developer may receive a certificate
identifying that further foreign investment approval is not required when sales are made to foreign persons.
A copy of the FIRB approval issued to the developer is to be retained on file. The offered security property
(for purchase or refinance) should match the property identified in the FIRB approval.

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000702                                                            3/23

2.9 Visa matrix and Applicant via Resident Type Matrix Overview

Applications may be accepted for consumer mortgage lending where the visa number is acceptable and any other conditions as detailed in the Acceptable Visa matrix and Applicant via Resident Type matrix are met.

The Acceptable Visa matrix details the:

- Visa subclass number
- Category of the visa type e.g. permanent or temporary
- If the visa type is acceptable to Westpac Group
- If the visa type is acceptable to the mortgage insurer
- Acceptable employment status
- Acceptable income type

The Applicant via resident type matrix details additional policy rules and conditions. Also refer to Unacceptable Visas.

Notes:

- Where an applicant holds a temporary or permanent visa that is:
- Not currently on the acceptable visa list, or the visa is no longer available, or you have been made aware of a new visa number (or subclass), then these can be referred to Credit for consideration and must be supported with detailed comments / notes and justification for acceptance.
- Listed on the Unacceptable visa list, then no lending is permitted either as a borrower or guarantor, no exceptions permitted even by Credit, refer Unacceptable Visas.
- Migrant lending customers will only be acceptable if all conditions set out in the Acceptable Visa matrix and the Applicant via resident type matrix, and any additional policy requirements and visa conditions are met, e.g.:
- Business visa types should reflect income status and documentation from within Australia.
- Sponsored visa types should reflect income from that region, i.e. state or territory sponsored visa's should reflect income earned within Australia.
- Applications that meet Migrant Lending policy requirements and require Mortgage Insurance, the Mortgage Insurer may consider any referral on a case-by-case basis with supporting commentary.

2.10 Visa Matrix

Additional information on Visa Numbers can be found at https://immi.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visa-listing

2.10.1 Acceptable Visas

|Acceptable Visa Subclass Number|Perm / Temp|Acceptable to WBC Group|Acceptable to MI|Employment|Income|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|100|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|AUD or nil income|
|101|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|AUD or nil income|
|102|Perm|Yes|Yes|PAYG, S/E or Non-working|AUD or nil income|
|103|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|AUD or nil income|

|Acceptable Visa Subclass Number|Perm / Temp|Acceptable to WBC|Acceptable to MI|Employment|Income|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|111 (refer note 10)|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil|
|114|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil|
|115|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil|
|116|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil|
|117|Perm|Yes|Yes|PAYG, S/E or Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil|
|119|Perm|Yes|Yes|PAYG, S/E or Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil|
|120|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil|
|121|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil|
|124|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil|
|132|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil|
|134|Perm|Yes|Yes|PAYG, S/E or Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil|
|136|Perm|Yes|Yes|PAYG, S/E or Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil|

|Acceptable Visa Subclass Number|Perm / Temp|Acceptable to WBC|Acceptable to MI|Employment|Income|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|137|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil|
|138|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil|
|139|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil|
|143|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil|
|151|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil|
|155|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil|
|157|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil|
|160|Temp|Yes|Yes|S/E|AUD|
|161|Temp|Yes|Yes|S/E|AUD|
|162 (refer note 6)|Temp|Yes|Yes|S/E|AUD|
|163|Temp|Yes|Yes|S/E|AUD|
|164|Temp|Yes|Yes|S/E|AUD|
|165 (refer note 5)|Temp|Yes|Yes|S/E|AUD|
|175|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil|
|176|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil|

|Acceptable Visa Subclass Number|Perm / Temp|Acceptable to WBC|Acceptable to MI|Employment|Income|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|186|Perm|Yes|Yes|PAYG, S/E or Non-working|Foreign income or nil|
|187|Perm|Yes|Yes|PAYG, S/E or Non-working|Foreign income or nil|
|188 - Business Innovation|Temp|Yes|Yes|S/E|AUD|
|188 - Investor (refer note 7)|Temp|Yes|Yes|S/E|AUD|
|188 - Significant Investor (refer note 8)|Temp|Yes|Yes|S/E|AUD|
|188 - Business Innovation Extension|Temp|Yes|Yes|S/E|AUD|
|188 – Significant Investor Extension (refer note 8)|Temp|Yes|Yes|S/E|AUD|
|188 – Premium Investor (refer note 9)|Temp|Yes|Yes|S/E|AUD|
|188 – Entrepreneur|Temp|Yes|Yes|S/E|AUD|
|189|Perm|Yes|Yes|PAYG, S/E or Non-working|Foreign income or nil|
|190|Perm|Yes|Yes|PAYG, S/E or Non-working|Foreign income or nil|
|191|Perm|Yes|Yes|PAYG, S/E or Non-working|Foreign income or nil|
|200|Perm|Yes|No|PAYG, S/E or Non-working|Foreign income or nil|
|201|Perm|Yes|No|PAYG, S/E or Non-working|Foreign income or nil|
|202|Perm|Yes|No|PAYG, S/E or Non-working|Foreign income or nil|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000702

|Acceptable Visa Subclass Number|Perm / Temp|Acceptable to WBC Group|Acceptable to MI|Employment|Income|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|203| |Perm|Yes|No|Non-working PAYG, S/E or Foreign income AUD or nil|
|204| |Perm|Yes|No|Non-working PAYG, S/E or Foreign income AUD or nil|
|309|Temp|Yes|Yes|PAYG or S/E|AUD|
|405|Temp|Yes|Yes|PAYG or S/E|AUD|
|420|Temp|Yes|Yes|PAYG or S/E|AUD|
|444|Temp|Yes|Yes|PAYG or S/E|AUD|
|457|Temp|Yes|Yes|PAYG or S/E|AUD|
|461|Temp|Yes|No|PAYG or S/E|AUD|
|482 TSS Medium-Term (MLTSSL)|Temp|Yes|Yes|PAYG or S/E|AUD|
|482 TSS Labour Agreement Stream|Temp|Yes|Yes|PAYG or S/E|AUD|
|489 (superseded by 491)|Temp|Yes|Yes|PAYG or S/E|AUD|
|491|Temp|Yes|Yes|PAYG or S/E|AUD|
|494|Temp|Yes|Yes|PAYG or S/E|AUD|
|801| |Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working PAYG, S/E or Foreign income AUD or nil|
|802| |Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working PAYG, S/E or Foreign income AUD or nil|
|804| |Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working PAYG, S/E or Foreign income AUD or nil|
|808| |Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working PAYG, S/E or Foreign income AUD or nil|
|820|Temp|Yes|Yes|PAYG or S/E|AUD|

|Acceptable Visa Subclass Number|Perm / Temp|Acceptable to WBC|Acceptable to MI|Employment|Income|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|835|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil income|
|836|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil income|
|837|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil income|
|838|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil income|
|851|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil income|
|855|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil income|
|856|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil income|
|857|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil income|
|858|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil income|
|864|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil income|
|866|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil income|
|885|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|Foreign, AUD or nil income|

|Acceptable Visa Subclass Number|Perm / Temp|Acceptable to WBC|Acceptable to MI|Employment|Income|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|886|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|AUD or nil|
|887|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|AUD or nil|
|888|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|AUD or nil|
|890|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|AUD or nil|
|891|Perm|Yes|Yes|PAYG, S/E or Non-working|AUD or nil|
|892|Perm|Yes|Yes|PAYG, S/E or Non-working|AUD or nil|
|893|Perm|Yes|Yes|Non-working|AUD or nil|

Legend item / notes:

1. Non-working = employment type includes home duties, retired, investor, unemployed, social security recipient or student

2. Foreign = Applicant is living in a foreign country and the majority of income earned is foreign currency, for acceptable foreign income sources refer to Verifying Income policy &gt; Foreign income and employment.

3. AUD = Applicant living in Australia and the majority of income earned is in Australian dollars Nil Income = Applicant is living in either a foreign country or Australia and not earning income, e.g. home duties

4. If applicants do not meet this criteria they may be a "Significant Investor". Proof of minimum AUD $750k Government bond investment is to be held and refer application to Credit for further consideration.

5. If applicants do not meet this criteria they may be a "Significant Investor". Proof of minimum AUD $1.5m Government bond investment is to be held and refer application to Credit for further consideration.

6. If applicants do not meet this criteria they may be a "Significant Investor". Proof of minimum AUD $2.5m Government bond investment is to be held and refer application to Credit for further consideration.

7. Proof of minimum AUD $5.0m Government bond investment is to be held and refer application to Credit for further consideration.

8. Proof of minimum AUD $15.0m Government bond investment is to be held and refer application to Credit for further consideration.

9. Applicants using Visa 111 must be referred to Credit for acceptance. Authorities to Return (ATR) and Return Endorsements (RE) are old style return visas issued to permanent residents between 1 March 1976 and 31 December 1986. Evidence was issued in the form of a stamp or label in the holder’s passport and contain the words ‘Authority to Return’ or ‘Return Endorsement’. Authorities to Return and Return Endorsements can no longer be granted but may still

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Acceptable Visa Subclass Number|Perm / Temp|Acceptable to WBC Group|Acceptable to MI|Employment|Income|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|be valid. The issue with the ATR/RE is they may only be evidenced in the passport and the Department of Home Affairs will not know from their own systems whether or not the visa was ever granted.| | |

# 2.10.2 Unacceptable Visas

Unacceptable Visa Subclass Numbers and types

The visa types listed in this table are unacceptable to both Westpac Group and the Mortgage Insurers.

Holders of the following unacceptable visas cannot be included either as a borrower, guarantor or title holder and their income cannot be used toward serviceability. Refer to Eligibility criteria and Applications with multiple applicants and varying visa types, citizenship or residency status.

|110|159|173|302|303|310|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|400|401|403|407|408|411|
|415|416|417|422|423|428|
|445|456|462|475|482 TSS Short-Term (STSOL)|485|
|487|495|496|500|572|573|
|574|590|600|601|602|651|
|771|785|790|870|880|884|
|942|988| | | | |

# 2.11 Applicant via Resident Type Matrix

Brokers and assessors must also refer to and follow any additional requirements as specified in the following policies:

- Verifying Income
- Loan to Value Ratio (LVR)
- Eligibility > Rules you must apply > Substantial benefit test

|#|Applicant type|Ordinarily resident|Income|Visa subclass number|Employment & Income as per Visa matrix?|Policy rules|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|1|New Zealand citizen|In Australia|AUD|n/a|n/a|Mortgage Insurance available FIRB not required|

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000702

|#|Applicant type|Ordinarily resident|Income|Employment number|Income acceptable as per Visa Matrix?|Policy rules|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|2|New Zealand citizen|In Australia only|NZD (PAYG only)|n/a|n/a|Proof of own contribution not required Mortgage Insurance is not available FIRB not required Owner builder is unavailable (all other products acceptable) Product conditions apply|
|3|New Zealand citizen, In New Zealand / other foreign country|In New Zealand / other foreign country|AUD|n/a|n/a|Proof of own contribution not required Mortgage insurance is not available FIRB not required Product conditions apply Proof of own contribution required|
|4|New Zealand citizen, In New Zealand / other foreign country|In New Zealand / other foreign country|NZD / Foreign (PAYG only)|n/a|n/a|Mortgage insurance is not available FIRB not required Owner builder is unavailable (all other products acceptable) Product conditions apply Proof of own contribution required Where the passport country of issue does not match the country where the applicant is employed, evidence is to|

Proof of own contribution not required
Mortgage insurance is not available
FIRB not required
Owner builder is unavailable (all other products acceptable)
Product conditions apply
Proof of own contribution required
Where the passport country of issue does not match the country where the applicant is employed, evidence is to be provided.

Link to more information

|#|Applicant type|Ordinarily resident|Income acceptable as per Visa Matrix?|Policy rules|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|5|Permanent|In Australia|AUD|Yes|n/a|FIRB not required|Proof of own contribution not required|
|6|Permanent|In Australia|AUD|Yes|n/a|FIRB not required|Proof of own contribution not required|
|7|Permanent|In Australia|Foreign (PAYG only)|Yes|n/a|Mortgage insurance not available|FIRB not required|Owner builder is unavailable (all other products acceptable)|Proof of own contribution not required|
|8|Permanent|In Australia|Foreign (PAYG only)|Yes|n/a|Mortgage insurance not available|FIRB not required|Owner builder is unavailable (all other products acceptable)|Proof of own contribution not required|

Visa subclass Employment & Income as per Visa Policy rules:

Proof must be supplied to show the applicant is able to reside and work within the foreign country.

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|#|Applicant type|Ordinarily resident|Income acceptable as per Visa Matrix?|Policy rules|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|9|Permanent|Out of Australia|AUD|Yes|n/a|
|10|Permanent|Out of Australia|AUD|Yes|n/a|

Mortgage insurance not available

FIRB not required

Investment Products only (owner builder is unavailable)

Applicants purchasing an Investment Property must have a minimum of 12 months remaining on their Australian Visa

Proof of own contribution required

Where the passport country of issue does not match the country where the applicant is employed, evidence is to be supplied to show the applicant is able to reside and work within the foreign country

|#|Applicant type|Ordinarily resident|Income acceptable as per Visa Matrix?|Employment number & Income as per Visa matrix?|Policy rules|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|11|Permanent|Out of Australia|Foreign (PAYG only)|Yes|n/a|

Mortgage insurance not available

FIRB not required

Investment Products only (owner builder is unavailable)

Applicants purchasing an Investment Property must have a minimum of 12 months remaining on their Australian Visa

Proof of own contribution required

Where the passport country of issue does not match the country where the applicant is employed, evidence is to be supplied to show the applicant is able to reside and work within the foreign country

|#|Applicant type|Ordinarily resident|Income acceptable as per Visa Matrix?|Employment number & Income as per Visa matrix?|Policy rules|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| | | | |Visa subclass|Proof of own contribution required|
| | | | |Out of Australia|Foreign (PAYG only)|
|12|Permanent|Out of Australia|Yes|n/a|Proof of own contribution required|
|13|Temporary|In Australia|Yes|Yes = Proceed as per Policy Rules column|Applicant must have a minimum of 12 months remaining on their Australian Visa|

Where the passport country of issue does not match the country where the applicant is employed, evidence is to be supplied to show the applicant is able to reside and work within the foreign country.

Mortgage insurance not available

FIRB not required

Investment Products only (owner builder is unavailable)

Applicants purchasing an Investment Property must have a minimum of 12 months remaining on their Australian Visa

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|#|Applicant type|Ordinarily resident|Income acceptable as per Visa Matrix?|Policy rules|
|---|---|---|---|---|
| | | |Visa subclass number & Income as per Visa Matrix?| |
| | | |income = no lending is possible|their Australian Visa Mortgage insurance available.|
| | | |No and reliant on this income = no lending is possible|FIRB required Proof of own contribution not required All borrowers must have 30% ownership|
|14|Temporary 1,3,6|In Australia|AUD|Yes lending is possible FIRB required Proof of own contribution not required All borrowers must have 30% ownership|

# Legend

|item#|Additional conditions|
|---|---|
|1|New Zealand and temporary visa residents Be aware that additional stamp duty may apply where NZ applicant does not hold a Special Category (Subclass 444) visa or temporary resident visa holder.|
|2|Evidence of Approved Permanent visa is to be held on file and verified by Mortgage Services. Acceptable document may be any one of: A copy of an Approved Permanent visa (refer Approved Migrant Visas: Migrant lending package) A copy of a current foreign passport with proof of permanent residence status A copy of a certificate of residence or the original Visa grant approval letter issued by the Department of Home Affairs A printout of the Visa Details Check from the Visa Entitlement Verification Online (VEVO) website https://online .immi.gov.au/evo/firstParty?actionType=query%20 If the visa evidence document (above) used displays a passport id, and it differs to the id on the passport, obtain: a copy of an old passport evidencing a match with the id on the visa document, or|

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Legend|item#|Additional conditions|
|---|---|---|
|a printout of the Visa Details Check (VEVO) evidencing a match with the id on the passport (this may require the applicant to update their passport details with the Department of Immigration)| | |
|Evidence of an Approved Temporary visa is to be held on file and verified by Mortgage Services.| | |
|Acceptable document may be any one of:| | |
|A copy of a current foreign passport with proof of acceptable temporary visa|3| |
|A copy of the original Visa grant approval letter issue by the Department of Home Affairs| | |
|A printout of the Visa Details Check from the Visa Entitlement Verification Online (VEVO) website https://online.immi.gov.au/evo/firstParty?actionType=query%| | |
|If the visa evidence document (above) used displays a passport id, and it differs to the id on the passport, obtain:| | |
|a copy of an old passport evidencing a match with the id on the visa document, or| | |
|a printout of the Visa Details Check (VEVO) evidencing a match with the id on the passport (this may require the applicant to update their passport details with the Department of Immigration)| | |
|All products available|4|If the security is for owner occupation by spouse or family member but this applicant lives out of Australia, then include detail of the following in the loan application: Overseas rental outgo Property asset relating to overseas residence (if owned / purchasing) Any associated overseas mortgage repayments and liabilities.|
|Earning income in China|5|a) Z Visa. The Z Visa is only a vehicle to enter China for a limited period of time. Upon arrival, the Z visa holder must then obtain work and residence permits which will allow them to legally work in the country. b) Work Permit (Alien Employment License) c) Resident Permit|
|For all applicant types, substantial benefits test requirements must be met, refer Eligibility > Rules you must apply > Substantial benefit test|6|The following borrowers must have a minimum 30% ownership: New Zealand citizens and Permanent Visa holders who ordinarily reside out of Australia, and All temporary Visa holders who are ordinarily a resident in or out of Australia|

# 2.12 Non-Resident Lending

A non-resident is defined as an individual who:

- Does not hold Australian Citizenship or an approved Australian Permanent residency visa, or
- Holds an approved Australian Temporary residency visa, however, does not ordinarily reside in Australia

Note: New Zealand citizens living in Australia are not considered non-residents for the purpose of this policy.

Lending to a non-resident applicant(s) is not permitted either as a borrower or guarantor, even where the non-resident income is not relied on to meet serviceability, for:

- A new consumer mortgage, or
- An increase to an existing consumer mortgage, or
- A variation activity which requires a serviceability assessment

No exceptions to the above are permitted (including Credit).

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

3. Process to follow

3.1 Migrant lending package application process

Process application as per normal and upload a copy of customer's visa type within ApplyOnline in accordance with section 3.2 below. In loan application notes, add any supporting information (excluding applicant’s Australian visa number).

Note:

All other lending criteria and process remain unchanged, such as the customer must hold a valid IDV and income documents.

All migrant temporary visa borrowers must provide a copy of their Foreign Investment Review Board (FIRB) approval (where applicable), refer Approval from FIRB, which must be complied with and uploaded into ApplyOnline.

3.2 Evidencing migrant visa

Migrant status must be evidenced via provision of a:

- copy of a work visa approval issued by Department of Home Affairs – Immigration and citizenship; or
- printout supplied by the customer from the VEVO website https://online.immi.gov.au/evo/firstParty?actionType=query

Where an applicant’s migrant category is Investor Visa type, evidence is to be provided of approved deposit funds held with State Treasury

Change History

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|1|3 November 2021|First OBP issue online for Brokers on the OKA platform.|
|2|9 November 2021|Links updated|
|3|10 November 2021|Translation Checklist attached|
|4|3 April 2022|Updated section ‘Applicant via Resident Type Matrix’: Deleted ‘where LVR >90% DUA2 approval required’ from scenario 9 ‘Applicant type’: Permanent> ” ’ Ordinarily resident ’ : ’: Australia>’Income’: AUD>’Visa subclass number’: acceptable as per VISA Matrix (for MI and non-MI). DUA2 approval is no longer required for this scenario. Deleted ‘ ( ‘(Max LVR 90% inclusive of capped premium – subject to ALMI approval (DUA4)).’ from scenario 17 ‘Applicant type’: Temporary> ” ’Ordinarily resident’ : Australia>’Income’: AUD>’Visa subclass number’: acceptable as per VISA Matrix (for MI and non-MI). DUA4 approval is no longer required for this scenario|
|5|17 July 2022|Changes: Sections re-numbered Section 2.1.5 Substantial Benefit Test section deleted as this is duplicated content to that located in Eligibility > Rules you must apply > Substantial benefit test. Minor wording update 2.6 Applications with multiple applicants and varying visa types, citizenship or residency status. FIRB content from Applicant via resident matrix moved to 2.7 Approval from foreign investment review board (FIRB) and re-worded. 2.8 > Visa matrix and Applicant via Resident Type Matrix section re-named 2.8 > Visa matrix and Applicant via Resident Type Matrix|

Source

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|6|21 August 2022|Updated section>Applicant via Resident Type Matrix> To include supporting document requirements for Temporary visa: Evidence of an Approved Temporary visa is to be held on file and verified by Mortgage Services. Acceptable document may be any one of: A copy of a current foreign passport with proof of acceptable temporary visa A copy of the original Visa grant approval issued by the Department of Home Affairs A printout of the Visa Details Check from the Visa Entitlement Verification Online (VEVO) website https://online.immi.gov.au/evo/firstParty?actionType=query%20|

Change 1 Updated section>Applicant via Resident Type Matrix> to include additional document types that can be used to evidence permanent residency: A copy of the original Visa approval letter issued by the Department of Home Affairs A printout of the Visa Details Check from the Visa Entitlement Verification Online (VEVO) website https://online.immi.gov.au/evo/firstParty?actionType=query%20Added supporting document evidence for temporary vias holders:

Change 2 Updated section>Applicant via Resident Type Matrix> To include supporting document requirements for Temporary visa: Evidence of an Approved Temporary visa is to be held on file and verified by Mortgage Services. Acceptable document may be any one of: A copy of a current foreign passport with proof of acceptable temporary visa A copy of the original Visa grant approval issued by the Department of Home Affairs A printout of the Visa Details Check from the Visa Entitlement Verification Online (VEVO) website https://online.immi.gov.au/evo/firstParty?actionType=query%20

Change 3 Minor wording change to section>Evidencing migrant visa: Changed VEVO web page to VEVO website

section Overview with some content split into new section 2.9 > Visa matrix Visa Matrix updated as follows: Split into Acceptable and Unacceptable Visas tables, New Visas added and cancelled / repealed visa removed as per Home Affairs list of current visas Visas 173 & 884 previously acceptable to WBC Group moved to the unacceptable visa list to align with LMI appetite Visas 200 to 204 inclusive are now acceptable to LMI All permanent visas have been aligned to allow PAYG, SE or nil employment (e.g. home duties) and foreign (PAYG), AUD or nil income Visa 188 split into 7 sub categories with notes updated to reflect the investment required to be evidenced, where applicable Applicant via resident matrix updated as follows: Removed duplicated references to other policy sections throughout the table and instead added these references to start of table Removed the following content for all permanent visa holders as no longer applies: Yes = Proceed as per Policy Rules column No and not reliant on this income = no lending is possible No and reliant on this income = no lending is possible Duplicated content removed from additional conditions section of matrix as follows: FIRB moved to section 2.7 Approval from foreign investment review board (FIRB) Cross collateralised foreign income loans as covered in Loan to Value Ratio (LVR) > LVR by borrower type and income source

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|7|2 October 2022|Change 1 Chapter name changed from Migrant Lending to Lending to Non-Australian citizens Change 2 Updated section ‘Applicant via resident type matrix’ for scenario ‘Applicant type=Temporary Resident/Ordinarily Resident = in Australia / Income = AUD/ Visa subclass number acceptable as per visa matrix = Yes: - Deleted footnote ‘Note: Genworth MI cover is not available’ and associated legend item ‘Genworth Mortgage Insurance cover is not available on any loans to Temporary residents. I.e. Top Up of Genworth MI premium in this scenario is not permitted.’
- Deleted ‘Note: Income other than foreign salary / wage income is to be verified under the applicable section of the Verifying Income policy’ – housekeeping/simplification change only, as this section already specifies ‘Lenders and assessors must also refer to and follow any additional requirements as specified in the ‘verifying income’ policy’
Change 3 General rewrite to remove procedures from policy and improve policy clarity, which includes: - Added new subheading and content > 2.1 Establishing citizenship and residency
- Added new subheading 2.12 Non-Resident Lending with content moved from chapter 2.14 Non-Resident Lending
- Deleted content relating to Australian citizens (including acceptable documents for evidencing Australian citizenship) from Applicant via Resident Type Matrix, this content moved to Eligibility chapter
Change 4 Added legend item to Applicant via Resident Type Matrix to reflect applicant types that require a minimum 30% ownership Change 5 Added policy rule for temporary visa holders residing in or out of Australia to have 30% ownership as follows: - All borrowers must have 30% ownership, refer Eligibility > Rules you must apply > Substantial benefit test
|
|8|20 November 2022|Change 1 Updated table in section ‘Applicant via Resident type matrix’ for Temporary visa holders as follows: Old wording All borrowers must have 30% ownership, refer Eligibility > Rules you must apply > Substantial benefit test New wording All borrowers must have 30% ownership|
|9|20 November 2022|Change 2 Update to content in section 2.6 Document translation Old wording In the event foreign income and other supporting documents (e.g. account statements) used to verify own contribution are not in English or are in a foreign currency, the applicant is to provide an English translation prepared by an accredited translator at their own cost. Translation of documents by either a Westpac Group staff member or a New wording https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000702|

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |Westpac Group Finance Broker is not permitted. The original documents, translated documents and Translation Checklist are to be retained in the loan file, refer Verifying Income > Foreign income and employment. New wording 2.6 Document translation In the event foreign income and other supporting documents (e.g. account statements) used to verify own contribution are not in English or display a currency other than AUD, refer to Document Standards policy > When supporting documents are not in English or display a currency other than AUD. The original documents, translated documents and Foreign currency translation checklist are to be retained in the loan file.|
|10|19 February 2023|Updated section ‘2.10.1 Acceptable Visas’ to include new permanent Visa 191 Updated section ‘2.5 Own Contribution Validation’ to include the following: New wording: Note: Where the account statement(s) does not evidence the full funds to complete / own contribution, it is acceptable to proceed, where a satisfactory explanation is entered in application supporting notes, e.g. the applicant has paid a deposit on the property being purchased and where combined with funds evidenced via account statements, confirms funds to complete / own contribution.|
|11|26 March 2023|Change 1 Updated section 2.4 Income and employment verification to remove content that is duplicated in other policy sections. Old wording If income earned is in AUD : verify the AUD income as per Verifying Income , policy. If any foreign income is declared and required for servicing: Confirm the applicant's income and employment is compliant with requirements in the Acceptable Visa matrix and Applicant via Resident Type matrix Verify foreign income as per Verifying Income policy > Foreign income and employment Be aware that the foreign income can impact: the maximum LVR availability of mortgage insurance loan purpose (e.g. refinance / cash out exclusions) product availability Note: Temporary residency visa holders earning foreign income are not eligible for lending as either a borrower or guarantor and the application is unable to proceed Refer to Loan to Value Ratio (LVR) policy > LVR by borrower type and income source and Applicant via Resident Type matrix New wording Where the application includes foreign income, or Australian Dollar (AUD) income from foreign PAYG employment, refer to and follow the requirements in: Verifying Income > Foreign income and / or employment Loan to Value Ratio (LVR) policy > LVR by borrower type and income source|

Link to more information

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|12|19 November 2023|Updated section 2.10.1 Acceptable Visas to include new permanent Visa 851 which is acceptable to WBC Group and MI and for all employment / income types|
|13|18 February 2024|Updated section ‘Applicant via Resident Type Matrix’ footnotes 2 and 3 to specify that where the VISA document displays a passport id that differs to the passport, the passport id on the visa document must be matched to an old passport, or a VEVO check must show a passport if matching the passport|
|14|29 February 2024|Correction to 820 Visa - Acceptable Employment & Acceptable Income|

Attachments

03.13 Translation Checklist CSH.xlsm

Comment on this policy

Comment on this policy

Rate this policy

Published Date 29/02/2024

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000702 23/23