# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Home | View Westpac Consumer Mortgages OBP Credit Policies | Contact Us

03.17 Serviceability Assessment

This policy contains commercially sensitive and confidential information. No part should be made available in any form whether printed, electronic or otherwise, outside the Westpac Group without approval from Westpac Legal or Regulatory affairs. This document is an UNCONTROLLED copy and is subject to change without prior notification. It is only valid at the date of extract.

# Table of Contents

1. About this policy
2. 1.1 Why this policy?
3. Rules you must apply
4. 2.1 Debt Service Coverage Ratio
5. 2.2 Income
6. 2.3 Living Expenses
7. 2.4 Commitments
8. 2.4.1 Default shared commitment rule
9. 2.5 Apportioned Household expenses and shared commitments and Apportioned shared commitments
10. 2.5.1 Apportioned household expenses and shared commitments - Spousal same household
11. 2.5.2 Apportioned shared commitment rule
12. 2.5.3 Serviceability Repayment Amount
13. 2.5.4 Commitment being refinanced using loan funds
14. 2.5.5 Excluded mortgage liability
15. 2.5.6 Amended current commitment
16. 2.6 Notional Rent expense
17. 2.7 Study and Training Support Loan Repayment Income Thresholds 2022-2023
18. 2.8 Household Expenditure Measure (HEM)
19. 2.8.1 Monthly Household Expenditure Measure - Table
20. 2.8.2 Monthly Household Expenditure Measure - Geographic Location
21. 2.8.3 Customer declared living expenses- compared to HEM
22. 2.8.4 Customer declared living expenses are less than 70% of HEM
23. 2.8.5 Customer declared living expenses- not compared to HEM
24. 2.8.6 Investment Property Expense floor
25. 2.9 Reverse Mortgage Loans
26. 2.10 Mortgages - Serviceability Repayment Amount
27. 2.10.1 Serviceability Assessment Rate (SAR) - Mortgage
28. 2.10.2 Benchmark Repayment Amount-Mortgage
29. 2.11 Parental leave-use of 'return to work' income
30. 2.12 Rental income tax deductions for Australian investment properties (Negative Gearing)
31. 2.13 Serviceability Assessment: Changes to financial circumstance
32. 2.14 Debt To Income (DTI) Ratio
33. 2.14.1 DTI Ratio Calculation
34. 2.14.2 High DTI Ratio - Commentary and Referral to Credit
35. 2.15 Judgemental assessment

Source: Link

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

1. About this policy

1.1 Why this policy?

Purpose

Serviceability assessment or capacity to service a loan/s forms one part of the unsuitability assessment as required under our Responsible Lending obligations. This policy identifies the standards for assessing serviceability.

Applicable to

Consumer mortgage applications where a borrower is seeking any of: new loan, loan increase, loan variation activity requiring a serviceability assessment

Exclusions

This policy does not apply to a Bridging ICAP loan with no end debt

Associated policies:

- Commitments
- Guarantees
- Living Expenses
- Validation of information provided by the customer
- Verifying Income
- If the application requires mortgage insurance, where required refer to: Lenders Mortgage Insurance

2. Rules you must apply

2.1 Debt Service Coverage Ratio

Definition

For consumer mortgage loans assessed in OBP, the borrower(s) and (any) income guarantor(s) capacity to service all debt is rated using the ‘Debt Service Coverage’ ratio measurement (DSC). Refer to ‘Minimum DSC required’

DSC Calculation

(Shaded Total Net Income – Total Expenses) / (Serviceability repayment amount used for existing commitments + new loans)

‘Total expenses’ for the purpose of the DSC calculation

Customer declared living expenses not comparable to HEM, plus the higher of: HEM or HEM comparable declared living expenses

|Minimum DSC required|Feature|Non-Mortgage Insured|Mortgage Insured|
|---|---|---|---|
| | | | |

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

| |LVR ≤ 80%|LVR > 80%|
|---|---|---|
| |1.00|1.00|
| |1.00|1.00|
|Foreign income|1.15|N/A|
|Student accommodation|1.25|N/A|
|Building loan - Owner Builder|1.00|N/A|

# 2.2 Income

Only income from a borrower(s) or an income guarantor(s) can be used. Refer to Eligibility and Guarantees.

Also refer to:

- Verifying Income
- Eligibility
- Guarantees

# 2.3 Living Expenses

Borrower(s) and income guarantor(s) are required to declare all household living expenses that are in place at the time of the application, as well as those which will be in place after settlement of their loan.

Also refer to:

- Customer declared living expenses –compared to HEM
- Customer declared living expenses –not compared to HEM
- Living Expenses
- Guarantees
- Apportioned household expenses and shared commitments - Spousal same household

# 2.4 Commitments

The borrower(s) and any income guarantor(s) commitments are considered in serviceability. All existing commitments are to be reflected in the application, regardless of whether they are to be closed, reduced or continued after the loan activity being assessed.

Also refer to:

- Commitments
- Guarantees

# 2.4.1 Default shared commitment rule

The ‘Default shared commitment rule’ requires 100% of a commitment amount and it’s ‘Serviceability Repayment Amount’ be included in the consumer mortgage application (aggregate) level serviceability assessment. For example, if a new loan / loan increase is in a sole name, but an existing commitment is held in joint / multiple names, the full amount of the existing commitment and it’s associated ‘Serviceability Repayment Amount’ must be applied against the sole borrower.

Where an existing commitment is shared with another borrower (i.e. more than 1 borrower on the existing commitment), serviceability may be assessed using either:

- Default shared commitment rule
- OR

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Apportioned household expenses and shared commitments - Spousal same household

Apportioned shared commitment rule

2.5 Apportioned household expenses and shared commitments and
Apportioned shared commitments
2.5.1 Apportioned household expenses and shared commitments - Spousal same household

This policy option allows the borrower’s serviceability to be assessed using their apportioned share of:

- household living expenses (both HEM comparable and non – HEM comparable expenses), and
- repayments for any existing shared commitments (i.e. debts / liabilities)

The borrower’s spouse must not be a borrower or income reliant guarantor on the consumer mortgage application being assessed, and

The borrower and the borrower’s spouse must live at the same address, and

The only borrowers on any existing shared commitments must be the borrower and the borrower’s spouse

This policy option is not available when:

- the application is processed outside of OBP, or
- the existing commitment or proposed consumer mortgage application being assessed has a company co-borrower, or
- borrowers on the existing shared commitment are not spouse only or do not fit the bank's definition of a household, or
- either borrower of the existing commitment or proposed consumer mortgage application being assessed earns foreign income

Where the borrower is not eligible for this policy, they may meet the requirements for the Apportioned shared commitments rule

The portion of the expense or commitment repayment used in the serviceability assessment is based on the borrower’s contribution to the total household income.

i.e. calculating the borrower’s income as a percentage of the total household income (i.e. borrower + spouse income), and applying that same percentage to the shared household living expenses and commitments.

When OBP is the assessment tool, the apportioned household expenses and shared commitments calculations will be automatically completed (including HEM value).

Lenders / assessors do not need to manually adjust the borrower’s percentage ownership or amount of an expense or a commitment.

Evidencing the borrower’s contribution to the total household income

The borrower’s contribution to household income must be evidenced by verifying both the borrower and non-borrower’s (borrower’s spouse) income.

The non-borrower (borrower's spouse) must be verified using the following income verification method:

Link to income verification method

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

PAYG must be verified using standard income verification policy. Refer to Verifying Income policy.

Self Employed non-borrower must be verified using Fast Track self-employed assessment. The full Fast Track policy criteria applies. Refer to Self Employed Customers policy.

|DTI|HEM|Verification|
|---|---|---|
|The entire commitment value (higher of balance/limit) is used in the DTI calculation (not the apportioned value)|The HEM band calculation is determined on total household income and does not change when using the apportioned household expense policy.|The broker must: - Comply with Commitments policy
- Sight the non-borrower spouse privacy and consent, identification, and income verification documents AND:
- Upload documentation (to OBP) confirming :
- 1. The borrower’s spouse resides at the same address as the borrower; and
- 2. The name of the borrower’s spouse matches the employee’s name on the income documents used to verify the borrower’s spouse income, including the ATO notice of assessment where the borrower’s spouse is self-employed.
- Default shared commitment rule
- Apportioned shared commitment rule
|

Related Serviceability Assessment policy

- Serviceability repayment amount
- Benchmark repayment amount – Mortgage
- Benchmark repayment amount calculation – New and existing internal mortgage
- Benchmark repayment amount calculation – External existing mortgage

2.5.2 Apportioned shared commitment rule

This policy option allows the borrower’s or income reliant guarantor’s serviceability to be assessed using their apportioned share of repayments for an existing shared commitment (i.e. debts / liabilities)

Eligibility

The borrower(s) or income guarantor(s) (WBC only) share an existing commitment with another borrower who is not:

- The spouse of the borrower and not a co-borrower on the new loan or loan variation being assessed, or
- An income guarantor (WBC only) on the new loan or loan variation being assessed

Apportioned shared commitment rule is not available when:

- The application is processed outside of OBP
- The new loan or shared commitment has a company co-borrower
- Foreign income is used in the serviceability assessment
- Any co-borrower / income guarantor (WBC only) of the shared commitment resides outside of Australia

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

The existing commitment is shared between spouses only:

If the borrower and non-borrower spouse reside at the same address, refer to Apportioned household expenses and shared commitments – Spousal same household policy. If the borrower and non-borrower spouse reside at different addresses, the borrower has to take on the full responsibility for both their own as well as the spouse’s portion of the debt.

|Calculation|The applicant’s apportioned share of the commitment used in serviceability assessment is based on the highest of the below categories|
|---|---|
|Category|Description|
|A. Repayment percentage|The percentage of the total minimum required loan repayment that the borrower(s) or income guarantor(s) plus their spouse (if their spouse is not a party on the new consumer mortgage application or loan variation being assessed) are liable. This is a customer declared percentage. E.g. Existing borrowers = Borrower 'A' + Borrower 'A' Spouse (who is not a party on the new consumer mortgage application or loan variation being assessed) + Other borrower who is not a party on the new consumer mortgage application or loan variation being assessed. The declared repayment percentage for Borrower 'A' plus their spouse was 50%. Note: the declared percentage is below the borrower percentage in this scenario.|
|B. Borrower Percentage|The borrower(s) or income guarantor (plus their spouse if their spouse is not a party on the new consumer mortgage application or loan variation being assessed) as a percentage of total borrowers. E.g. Existing borrowers = Borrower 'A' + Borrower 'A' Spouse (who is not a party on the new consumer mortgage application or loan variation being assessed) + Other borrower who is not a party on the new consumer mortgage application or loan variation being assessed. Borrower 'A' plus their spouse represent 66.66% of total borrowers (This percentage is based on the equal distribution of the commitment amongst all borrowers on the existing commitment).|
|C. Asset ownership percentage|The borrower(s) or income guarantor(s) plus their spouse’s ownership of any assets securing the existing commitment (Only applies). This is a customer declared percentage.|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Example|DTI|Verification|
|---|---|---|
|Using the examples above, if: 100% of the associated ‘Serviceability Repayment Amount’ under the ‘Default shared commitment rule’ is $3,000, then the associated ‘Serviceability Repayment Amount’ if using the ‘Apportioned shared commitment rule’, would be $2,400 using C. Assets ownership percentage of 80%, as this is the highest percentage in the above examples.|The entire commitment value (higher of balance/limit) is used in the DTI calculation (not the apportioned value)|The broker must: Comply with Commitments policy The commitment type must allow an apportioned serviceability repayment amount. To identify if the commitment is eligible to be apportioned, refer to following sections in this chapter: Serviceability repayment amount Benchmark repayment amount – Mortgage Benchmark repayment amount calculation – New and existing internal mortgage Benchmark repayment amount calculation – External existing mortgage|

Serviceability Repayment Amount

The Serviceability Repayment Amount is the repayment amount which is ultimately used within the serviceability assessment. The repayment amount is determined by the type of liability and can be either:

- Benchmark Repayment Amount - refers to repayment value which has been calculated by the Bank for serviceability purposes only
- Customer Declared Contracted Repayment Amount - refers to the contracted repayment amount for the commitment as declared by the customer

The higher of the commitment current balance or limit is used in the Benchmark Repayment Amount calculation, except where the below apply:

- Commitment being refinanced using loan funds
- Amended current commitment

Loans originated concurrently, or existing loans with a concurrent loan activity, it is important that the correct repayment is assigned to the associated liability in each application

|Commitment Type|Repayment Amount calculation|Benchmark|Monthly repayment figure|Apportioned shared commitment|Additional rules / information|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Business Commercial Bill (When held by a partnership, company, or trust)|Principal and Interest using Higher of actual interest rate plus buffer (1%) or floor rate 5.20% pa|Term using the lower of Customer declared expected rolling term or Maximum default term (15 years)|Benchmark repayment amount|No|Only include in ApplyOnline if debt is in personal names. When the commitment is in the name of a company, partnership or trust, the commitment must be included in the Broker Serviceability Calculator with the self-employed income assessment. Higher of limit / balance Plus 12x monthly fees|
|Business Credit Card (When held by a partnership, company, or trust)|3% of higher of limit / balance|Benchmark Repayment Amount|No| |The commitment must be included in the Broker Serviceability Calculator with the self-employed income assessment|

Where the borrower of the commitment is the individual: Include the commitment in ApplyOnline using the applicable liability type (i.e. mortgage)

Where the borrower of the commitment is the entity: The commitment must be included in the Broker Serviceability Calculator with the self-employed income

|Business Inter-entity loan|Where the borrower of the commitment is the entity|Calculated repayment based on:|
|---|---|---|
| |Where the borrower of the commitment is the entity|No|

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

|Commitment Type|Repayment Amount calculation|Benchmark Repayment Amount|Monthly figure|Apportioned commitment|Can shared rule be applied?|Additional rules / information|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Business Overdraft (When held by a partnership, company, or trust)|Higher of rate plus buffer (1%) or floor rate (6.50%)|Benchmark repayment amount|No| | |The commitment must be included in the Broker Serviceability Calculator with the self-employed income assessment|
|Business Tax Debt (When held by a partnership, company, or trust)|N/A|Calculated repayment based on: Interest rate Remaining principal and interest term Verified balance|No| | |The commitment must be included in the Broker Serviceability Calculator with the self-employed income assessment|
|Business Term Loan|When held in an individual name: Principal and Interest using: Higher actual interest rate or 7.67% pa Remaining Principal and Interest term Higher of limit / balance When held by a partnership, company or trust: Principal and Interest using: Higher of actual interest rate plus buffer (1%) or floor rate 5.20% pa Maximum default term (7 years)|When held in an individual name: Higher of customer declared / actual (internal liabilities) repayment or Benchmark Repayment Amount When held by a partnership, company, or trust: Benchmark repayment amount and Lower of declared principal and interest term Higher of limit / balance|Yes when the commitment is held in an individual name|Only include in OBP (as a “Business / commercial loan”) if commitment is in personal names. When the commitment is in the name of a company, partnership or trust, the commitment must be included in the Broker Serviceability Calculator with the self-employed income assessment|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

|Commitment Type|Repayment Amount calculation|Monthly figure|Apportioned commitment|Can shared rule be applied?|Additional rules / information|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|'Buy Now Pay Later' commitments from providers:|NA - as $0 payment is applicable for serviceability purposes|$0 payment is applicable for serviceability purposes|No| | |
|Afterpay| | | | | |
|Laybuy| | | | | |
|Sezzle| | | | | |
|Deferit| | | | | |
|PayPal Payin4| | | | | |
|Klarna| | | | | |
|PayItLater| | | | | |
|StepPay| | | | | |
|'Buy Now, Pay Later commitments' from providers other than:|Refer to Glossary| |No| | |
|Afterpay|Refer to Glossary| | | | |
|Laybuy|Refer to Glossary| | | | |
|Sezzle|Refer to Glossary| | | | |
|Deferit|3.8% of higher of limit/balance| |No| | |
|PayPal Payin4|3.8% of higher of limit/balance| |No| | |
|Klarna|3.8% of higher of limit/balance| |No| | |
|PayItLater|3.8% of higher of limit/balance| |No| | |
|StepPay|3.8% of higher of limit/balance| |No| | |
|Cards (personal) which do not require full repayment each month|3.8% of higher of limit/balance|Higher of: Customer Declared Contracted Repayment Amount|No|Brokers are not permitted to reflect a lower limit based on historical behaviour or exclude facilities for non-usage. Also refer to ‘Cards with an active|
|May include: Credit cards Store cards Charge cards| | | | | |

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Commitment Type|Repayment Amount|Serviceability calculation|Monthly figure|Apportioned shared commitment|Additional rules / information|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Cards (personal) which do require full repayment each month|NA - as $0 payment is applicable for serviceability purposes|$0 payment is applicable for serviceability purposes|NA|NA - as $0 serviceability applies for serviceability purposes|Also refer to: 'Cards with an active ‘Flexible Payment Option (FPO)’ limit' Commitments > Rules you must apply|
|Cards (personal) with an active ‘Flexible Payment Option (FPO)’ limit|3.8% of higher of Flexible Payment Option (FPO) limit/balance|Higher of: Customer Declared Contracted Repayment Amount Benchmark Repayment Amount|Yes|Also refer to: Commitments > Rules you must apply|
|Centrelink debt|N/A|N/A|No|Customer Declared Contracted Repayment Amount|Also refer to: Commitments > Rules you must apply|
|Hire purchase|NA|NA|Yes| | |
|Leases|NA| |Yes|Customer Declared Contracted Repayment Amount, being the contracted repayment amount for the finance portion of the lease| |
|Balloon payment is| | | | | |

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Commitment Type|Repayment Amount calculation|Monthly figure|Apportioned shared commitment|Additional rules / information|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|Margin loans|1% pa of balance|Benchmark Repayment Amount|Yes|Margin loan statements dated within the last 2 months are required to confirm the balance used in calculating the repayment. Any income from the share portfolio is to be verified in terms of the Verifying Income policy. Refer Commitments > Rules you must apply|
|Mortgages (with a contracted term)|Refer to Mortgages - Serviceability Repayment Amount| | |OBP will calculate the repayments for the loan being sought|
|Overdraft – personal / unsecured line of credit (non-mortgage)|3.8% of higher of limit/balance|Customer Declared Contracted Repayment or Benchmark Repayment Amount|Yes|May include: Flexi Loans (WBC Product), Get Set loans (SGB / BoM / BSA Product)|

Link: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Commitment Type|Repayment Amount calculation|Monthly figure|Apportioned shared commitment|Additional rules / information|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|Personal loans|Principal and Interest using: 10.97% interest rate pa Remaining Principal and Interest term* Higher of limit/balance *Where the term field is left blank, the remaining term will default to 12 months Note: In all cases, where there is a Balloon payment applicable, it will not be included in the Benchmark Repayment Amount calculation, on the basis that balloon amount will be covered by the return of the asset at the end of the loan agreement|Higher of: Customer Declared Repayment Amount; or Benchmark Repayment Amount|Yes|
|Other loans|3.8% of higher of limit/balance|Benchmark Repayment Amount|Yes|
|Rental expense or Board expense|N/A|The higher of either: 100% of the actual monthly expense (it is acceptable for the declared amount to be equal to or greater than $0) Notional Rent expense|No|Borrower will not be residing in the security collateral or a property they already own, after purchase or final drawdown. Note: When multiple tenants are on a lease, it is acceptable for the borrower’s share of the actual monthly expense to be loaded as percentage of the|

Refer to Glossary for definition of a:
Boarder
Renter

Note: In OBP outgoing rent / board is categorised as an expense (non-discretionary), refer Commitments &gt;
outgoing rent / board is categorised as an expense (non-discretionary), refer Commitments &gt;

Link to original document

Commitment Type

|Repayment Amount calculation|Monthly figure|Apportioned shared commitment|Additional rules / information|
|---|---|---|---|
|Confirm the details of the commitment, for verification requirements| | |total contracted rent. Excludes where rent / board expense is shared with a spousal partner (then the borrower and their spouse’s combined ownership of the expense must be entered). Refer to Apportioned household expenses and shared commitments - Spousal same household policy and scenarios at the bottom of this table.|
|Secured Line of Credit (without a contracted term)|Refer to: Mortgages - Serviceability Repayment Amount Benchmark Repayment Amount - Mortgage|Higher of: Customer Declared Contracted Repayment Amount Benchmark Repayment Amount|If the account must be cleared in full each month, the requirements are as per ‘Cards which do require full repayment each month’|
|Store account|3.8% of higher of limit/balance|Refer to: Mortgages - Serviceability Repayment Amount Benchmark Repayment Amount - Mortgage|Yes|
|Study and Training Support Loans eg HELP, SSL, ABSTUDY SSL, TSL, SFSS, HECS|STSL Repayment Income multiplied by the corresponding STSL repayment rate|Benchmark Repayment Amount|No Any outstanding Study and Training Support Loans must be recorded as a commitment, even if the income level is insufficient to trigger a repayment amount. Repayments are not to be|

Repayment Income’ used for this calculation is: Gross shaded declared taxable income less negative gearing deductions less the higher of (customer

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

|Commitment Type|Repayment Amount|Benchmark calculation|Monthly figure|Apportioned shared commitment|Additional rules / information|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Tax Bill|Not included in serviceability assessment as the payment is not yet due (it is a bill not a debt)|Follow Commitments policy| | |Refer to Glossary for definition|
|Tax Debt - Personal|Refer to Glossary for definition| | | |In this case, the payment is assessed at 100% of the consistent payment (2. above), reflected as monthly|

Type A: A formal payment plan is in place with the Tax Office

Assessed at 100% of the monthly commitment (per payment arrangement) where the payment/s are consistent in amount and frequency. Where this does not apply, assess as below

A ‘standard’ payment plan arrangement can also involve:

1. a higher initial payment, e.g. 10% of the total debt
2. remaining (excluding the final) payments of consistent frequency and amount e.g. $198.83 per fortnight
3. a final payment which is the lowest payment and sees the debt repaid in full, e.g. $180.29

If the payment plan arrangement differs to the above (e.g. every payment amount differs or payment frequency differs), the payment amount used for serviceability is to be the monthly average of all remaining payments

Type B: A formal payment plan is NOT in place with the Tax Office

No lending or approval (In Principle Approval) is available

Follow Commitments > Rules > Tax Debt Type B-rules and verification

Scenarios – Outgoing rent or outgoing board

1. Where the borrower and their spouse (non-borrower on the new loan) rent a property together, then the total contracted rental amount and 100% ownership of the expense must be entered against the borrower. Where Apportioned household expense and shared commitments – Spousal same household policy is being utilised, you will need to include the entire rental outgoing amount as an expense. The system will automatically calculate the borrower’s percentage of the rental outgo to be used in the serviceability. Include notes in the application to describe the scenario clearly for the Assessor.
2. Where the borrower and their spouse (non-borrower on the new loan), rent a property with 1 other person, then the borrower’s and their spouse’s share of the total contracted rent must be entered, e.g. 3 tenants on the lease, then the borrower’s and their spouse’s share of the rent is 66%. This can be entered against the borrower as:
- 66% of the total contracted rental outgo amount and 100% expense ownership, or
- The total contracted rental outgo amount and 66% expense ownership

Where Apportioned household expense and shared commitments - Spousal same household policy has been applied, the system will automatically calculate the borrower’s percentage of the rental outgo shared with their spouse, there is no requirement to manually calculate the borrower’s share of the rental

|Commitment Type|Repayment Amount calculation|Monthly Repayment figure|Apportioned shared commitment|Additional rules / information|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|expense.| | | | |
|3. The borrower and their spouse rent a property and are applying for a new loan in joint names. The total contracted rent may be loaded in full against either borrower, or split between both borrowers, providing the total contracted rental outgo is entered and the combined expense ownership reflects 100%. Apportioned household expense and shared commitments - Spousal same household policy does not apply in this instance as it is a joint borrower application.| | | | |
|4. The borrower rents a property with 2 other people (non-spousal), who are not co-borrowers on the new loan application. It is acceptable to enter the borrower’s share of the total contracted rent based on the number of tenants on the lease, e.g. 3 tenants on the lease, then the borrower’s share of the rent is 33%. This can be entered as: 33% of the total contracted rental outgo amount and 100% expense ownership, or The total contracted rental outgo amount and 33% expense ownership| | | | |
|5. The borrower and co-borrower (non-spousal) on the new loan application rent a property together and are both on the lease. An amount or expense ownership percentage equivalent to 50% of the total contracted rental outgo must be entered against each borrower, i.e. this can be entered as: 50% of the total contracted rental outgo amount and 100% expense ownership against each borrower, or The total contracted rental outgo amount and 50% expense ownership against each borrower| | | | |

|Scenario|Payment amount used for serviceability|Additional requirements|
|---|---|---|
|Any commitment is being cleared and closed using loan funds|The payment is not included|The current commitment position (pre clearance) must be loaded in ApplyOnline ApplyOnline Refer Serviceability Repayment Amount Verification as per Commitments|
|Any commitment is being reduced using loan funds|The payment on the lower limit can be used, if the reduction will result in a reduced payment|The current commitment position (pre reduction) and the resulting liability position (post reduction) must be loaded in ApplyOnline The resulting payment (post reduction) is to be loaded in ApplyOnline Refer Serviceability Repayment Amount Verification as per Commitments|

Legend

1 Refer to Eligibility policy which lists certain commitments which may not be cleared and closed, Link

|Scenario|Payment amount used for serviceability|Additional requirements|
|---|---|---|
| |or reduced from loan proceeds, e.g. Tax Debts, Tax Bills and Margin Loans.| |

2.5.5 Excluded mortgage liability

The 'Exclude Liability' option is only available:

- for new loans and loan increases
- for mortgage liabilities (internal or external)
- when the scenario, additional requirements and verification requirements detailed in the below table are met

Where serviceability is met without excluding the liability, this option does not need to be applied.

|Scenario|Payment amount used for serviceability|Additional requirements|Verification requirements|
|---|---|---|---|
|A mortgage liability is to be cleared and closed independently1 by the customer via the associated property sale, after Unconditional Approval but prior to or simultaneous with drawdown/settlement|The payment is not included2|The current liability position (pre clearance) must be loaded in ApplyOnline|Evidence of the liability clearance is required after Unconditional Approval but prior to drawdown/settlement (or settlement booking)|

Internal liability2

Internal systems may be used to evidence clearance, via one of the below methods:

- Loan account closure (e.g. for a loan to be closed before settlement/drawdown)
- Settlement booking for excluded liability

External liability2

Evidence clearance via one of the below methods:

- Loan account closure statement (e.g. for a loan to be closed before settlement/drawdown)
- Settlement statement detailing expected

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Scenario|Payment amount used for serviceability|Additional requirements|Verification requirements|
|---|---|---|---|
|Simultaneous settlement|Assessment notes are to capture details of the discussion with the customer, including how the liability is to be cleared|Settlement date and payment to that lender|Stamped letter from external financial institution confirming the loan closure (e.g. for a loan to be closed before settlement/drawdown)|
|Load ApplyOnline with the current details of the facility and details of discussion with customer.| | | |

Legend

1. 'Independently by the customer' means that the customer is not using the loan funds to facilitate the clearance and closure or reduction

2. St George Bank Group and RAMS are considered to be external providers

Amended current commitment

A current commitment position may only be amended for new loans and loan increases when the scenario, additional requirements and verification requirements detailed in the below table are met

|Scenario|Policy rule|Additional requirements|Verification requirements|
|---|---|---|---|
|Buy Now Pay Later - Fixed Term commitment / order, where its contracted clearance date is after Unconditional Approval but prior to drawdown/settlement|The repayment is not included|The current commitment balance must be loaded in ApplyOnline. The declared repayment can be loaded as $0 in ApplyOnline. Enter application comments explaining why the declared payment amount was entered|Verification requirements must be met prior to Unconditional Approval: The contracted clearance date of each commitment/order is to be verified via any document from the provider which displays:|

Source: Link

|Scenario|Policy rule|Additional requirements|Verification requirements|
|---|---|---|---|
|Now Pay Later - Revolving Term|This option does not need to be applied where:|as $0 confirming the contracted minimum payment amount confirming how the contracted clearance date was evidenced|A. provider logo or name B. account / commitment identifier and/or account holder name C. evidence of the contracted clearance date (this may be evidenced via the number of payments remaining when the frequency of payments is known) If the document format is ‘Written text within the body of an email’: B and C are required and the email must be issued from the provider's email system (not a public email address e.g. 'gmail') and the email must be sent directly from the provider to the Broker Remaining verification requirements as per Commitments Verification documentation must be imaged and held in the loan file|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Scenario|Policy rule|Additional requirements|Verification requirements|
|---|---|---|---|
|Any liability will be cleared and closed independently by the customer1, prior to Unconditional Approval|The repayment is not included|The current commitment position (pre clearance) must be loaded in ApplyOnline|Verification requirements must be met prior to Unconditional Approval: Internal liability2 Comprehensive Credit Bureau Report (CCR) or Internal systems or document listed for external commitment may be used to evidence that the commitment has been closed. Verification documentation must be imaged and held in the loan file (excluding the CCR)|

Note: This option does not need to be applied where:

- Standard policy allows the use of $0 repayment
- Serviceability is met on the current position

Closure must be verified prior to Unconditional Approval. Assessment notes are to capture details of the discussion with the customer, including how the liability is to be cleared.

External liability2 Comprehensive Credit Bureau Report (CCR) or Any document3 from the provider which displays:

- Provider logo or name
- Account / commitment identifier and / or account holder name
- Evidence that the commitment has been closed

Where a document from a provider is used to confirm that the commitment has been closed, there is no requirement for this document to meet the maximum age of documents requirement for that document, i.e. the document may exceed 2 months If

For more information, visit here

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Scenario|Policy rule|Additional requirements|Verification requirements|
|---|---|---|---|
| |The document format is ‘Written text within the body of an email'|B and C are required and the email must be issued from the provider's email system (not a public email address e.g. 'gmail') and the email must be sent directly from the provider to the Broker| |
|Any liability will be reduced independently by the customer1, prior to Unconditional Approval|A payment on the lower limit can be used for serviceability if the reduction will result in a reduced payment| |The resulting liability position (post reduction) can be loaded in ApplyOnline. The resulting payment (post reduction) can be loaded in ApplyOnline. Reduced position must be verified prior to Unconditional Approval. Supporting evidence is to be obtained by the broker and submitted with the lending file.|
|Any liability will be cleared and closed or reduced independently by the customer1, after Unconditional Approval but prior to drawdown/settlement|The commitment may not be amended. Standard policy applies| |It does not comply with a scenario detailed within this policy|

Legend

1 'Independently by the customer' means the customer is not using the loan funds to facilitate the clearance and closure or reduction

2 SGB, BoM, BSA and RAMS are considered to be external providers

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

|Scenario|Policy rule|Additional requirements|Verification requirements|
|---|---|---|---|
|3 Examples include but are not limited to: a statement, screen image, letter, email| | | |
|4 A standalone document attached to an email is not ‘written text in the body of an email’. Refer to Document Standards > Acceptable and unacceptable document formats, delivery methods and suppliers| | | |

2.6 Notional rent expense

|Definition| |
|---|---|
|Where a borrower or income guarantor:| |
|Will not be residing in the security collateral or a property which they already own after purchase or drawdown, a minimum notional rental amount will be applied to the serviceability assessment, refer to ‘Borrower Type’ in table below.| |
|Will be residing in the security collateral or a property they already own after purchase or drawdown, notional rent will not apply. This includes where a property is under construction, and it will be occupied by the borrower(s) upon completion.| |
|Refer to Glossary for definition of a:| |
|Boarder| |
|Renter| |
|Refer to Commitments policy > Customer commitments:| |
|Outgoing board| |
|Outgoing rent| |

Notional Rent Rule:

|Borrower Type|Residential status|Declared outgo|Rule|
|---|---|---|---|
|Individual|Living with parents or other boarding arrangement|Borrower has declared $0 or greater outgoing rent / board amount.|Notional rent WILL apply to each applicant and CANNOT be excluded from serviceability assessment.|
|Joint with non-spouse|Rental arrangement| | |
| |Living with spousal partner| | |

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

guarantor (WBC only)
at an applicant on the loan level

Notional Rent WILL apply at household level and CANNOT be excluded from serviceability

Living with parents or other boarding arrangement

Bop borrowers living wip pe same parent(s) or in pe same boarding arrangement
Serviceability will be assessed on pe higher of:
Verified actual (rent) / declared (board) monply amount
Or
Notional Rent $650.00 per monp applied at household level

Rental arrangement

Bop borrowers living in pe same rental property

Borrowers have declared $0 or greater outgoing rent / board

Notional Rent WILL apply to each applicant and CANNOT be excluded from serviceability assessment

Serviceability will be assessed on the higher of:

Verified actual (rent) / declared (board) monthly amount

Or

Notional Rent $650.00 pm applied at an applicant level

Living with parents or other boarding arrangement

Each borrower living at a different address, eiper wip parents or oper boarding arrangement
Serviceability will be assessed on pe higher of:
Verified actual (rent) / declared (board) monply amount
Or
Notional Rent $650.00 pm applied at an applicant level

Legend

1 Spousal partner / spouse = married or de facto

# Study and Training Support Loan Repayment Income Thresholds 2023-2024

|Repayment Income|Repayment Rate|
|---|---|
|Below $51,550|Nil|

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710 23/73

|Income Range|Commission Rate|
|---|---|
|$51,550 - $59,518|1.00%|
|$59,519 - $63,089|2.00%|
|$63,090 - $66,875|2.50%|
|$66,876 - $70,888|3.00%|
|$70,889 - $75,140|3.50%|
|$75,141 - $79,649|4.00%|
|$79,650 - $84,429|4.50%|
|$84,430 - $89,494|5.00%|
|$89,495 - $94,865|5.50%|
|$94,866 - $100,557|6.00%|
|$100,558 - $106,590|6.50%|
|$106,591 - $112,985|7.00%|
|$112,986 - $119,764|7.50%|
|$119,765 - $126,950|8.00%|
|$126,951 - $134,568|8.50%|
|$134,569 - $142,642|9.00%|
|$142,643 - $151,200|9.50%|
|$151,201 and above|10%|

2.8 Household Expenditure Measure (HEM)

The HEM, developed by the Melbourne Institute, represents a broad based estimated level of absolute basic and discretionary expenditure for modern Australian households and is produced Quarterly.

Definition

The HEM is applied by the loan origination system and other serviceability assessment tools.

Used for

It is an index used by the Bank to set the minimum surplus rule for serviceability. May be used for the allocation of living expenses within an application.

Link to more information

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

See Monthly Household Expenditure Measure Table

# Categorised according to:

- Geographical location of the borrower’s place of residence (including overseas residence)
- Marital status
- Number of dependants (refer to Living Expenses policy)

The geographical location is based on the borrower’s residential postcode post loan settlement - see Monthly Household Expenditure Measure - Geographic location. The post settlement postcode is mandatory to calculate HEM. If the application is an In Principal Approval, the post settlement postcode is to be captured as accurately as possible.

# Rules:

Applicant's gross income for the HEM band is calculated based on the total:

- Gross annual salary / wages income (unshaded) plus
- Gross annual rental income (unshaded) less the higher of (customer declared investment property costs or 10% of gross unshaded rental income) less investment loan interest costs (where negative gearing has been used) plus
- All other gross annual income (unshaded)

# Household definition:

Refer to Glossary

# Monthly Household Expenditure Measure - Table

Minimum surplus requirements are set out below based on HEM Quarter information shown in the HEM Tables. Source: Melbourne Institute.

The HEM table includes a split by applicant’s household income, geographical location, marital status, and number of dependants.

To manually calculate the HEM value:

1. Calculate
- Gross annual salary / wages income (unshaded) plus
- Gross annual rental income (unshaded) less investment property operating costs/expenses less investment loan interest costs (where negative gearing has been used) plus
- All other gross annual income (unshaded)
2. Determine if applicant's post settlement postcode is classified as ‘HEM Remote postcode’ or not
3. To determine the applicable HEM value, go to the Monthly Household Expenditure Measure Table taking into account:
- Income as calculated above at step 1.
- Geographical location based on the applicant’s post settlement postcode from step 3.
- Marital status
- Number of dependants*In the case of ‘Joint with Spouse’ applicants living in the same household, a combined HEM household income is used to determine the HEM band to be used. For other applicants, the individual HEM household income is used to determine the applicable HEM band.

The table below provides details of how the HEM values apply.

Link to source

# Marital Status

|Marital Status|Spouse’s Status|HEM Table|
|---|---|---|
|Single / Divorced / Widowed / Separated / Undisclosed|N/A|Use table 1 (Single)|
| |Spouse is neither a borrower or an income guarantor on the loan being assessed|Use table 2 (Joint)|
|Married / De Facto|Spouse is a borrower or an income guarantor on the loan being assessed and living in the same household|Use table 3 (Joint with Spouse)|
| |Spouse is a borrower or an income guarantor on the loan being assessed and living in a different household|Use table 1 (Single)|

# HEM tables

For household incomes greater than $630k gross per annum, the loan origination system platform will extrapolate the HEM value using the following calculation:

(Household Income amount / Mid-point of top HEM band) x (Top band HEM value – Second Top band HEM value) + Second Top band HEM value).

# Monthly Household Expenditure Measure - Geographic Location

HEM Remote postcode listing

Where postcode is listed, treat as ‘Remote Location’ in HEM calculation.

Where postcode is not listed, treat as ‘Rest of Australia' in HEM calculation.

Overseas Remote Location / Australian average postcode segregation does not apply, and all overseas postcodes are treated as ‘Rest of Australia'.

# Customer declared living expenses – compared to HEM

For the purposes of assessing the borrower(s) and (any) income guarantor(s) capacity to repay the Bank, the higher of Household Expenditure Measure (HEM) and Customer Declared 'Living Expenses compared to HEM' per household will be used.

Refer to Living Expenses > Living Expenses compared to HEM

# Customer declared living expenses are less than 70% of HEM

When the total of the borrower’s declared 'Living Expenses compared to HEM' are less than 70% of HEM at application level, brokers / assessors must:

- Discuss the declared level of expenses with the applicant(s) noting that they appear relatively low. (Refer to Living Expenses > Conflicting information)
- For all expense categories, undertake any relevant / appropriate scrutiny of account or transactional information, and make further enquiries where any information is identified which conflicts with the customer declared expenses
- Ensure any expense fields entered as $0 had commentary added to explain why the expense does not apply to the applicants
- Record the outcome of these discussions with the applicant(s) in the loan origination system to document the rationale behind why the expenses are low. Refer to Rational examples below.

7/4/24, 11:04 AM WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

It is not a requirement to obtain further supporting documents to specifically validate this information.

# Rational examples

|Satisfactory rationale examples|Unsatisfactory rationale examples|
|---|---|
|Customer declared living expenses are &lt; 70% of HEM, customer has confirmed expenses are low due to: currently focusing on saving for construction in the future both applicants are working from home with scheduled breaks, they can pick and drop their kids to school which allow them to save from Out of School Hours Care (OSHC) costs living at home with parents and do not pay any other insurances or utilities confirmed with customer that Customer declared expenses are accurate to their everyday spending, review of information held supports conversation|Expense check complete Discussed expenses with customer Ok to proceed|

2.8.5 Customer declared living expenses – not compared to HEM
Refer to Living Expenses &gt; Living Expenses compared to HEM

Investment property costs - refer to Living Expenses not compared to HEM &gt; Expense categories - Investment Property Costs (Including Insurance)

Where the serviceability assessment includes self-employed income, refer to Self-employed Customers &gt; Self-employed assessment methods &gt; Fast Track and Self-employed Customers &gt; Rental income – Latest year and 2 year average methods

2.8.6 Investment Property Expense Floor

An investment property expense floor will be used for serviceability for residential properties that earn long term rental income.
The investment property costs used for serviceability will be assessed on the higher of:
Customer declared investment property costs: OR
10% of Gross Rental Income

Investment Property Expense floor does not apply for:
Short term rental income
Defence Housing Authority (DHA) rental Guarantee
NRAS security under a Head Lease structure
Commercial properties

2.9 Reverse Mortgage Loans

Definition A reverse mortgage is designed for people aged over 60 years or older using the equity in the Owner Occupied property as security, to advance funds.
The borrower is not required to make repayments, interest and fees compound and add to the principal amount borrowed. Normally the

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710 27/73

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Loan is repaid in full when the borrower (or deceased estate) sells the security.

Applications involving an ongoing (not clearing or excluded) existing Reverse Mortgage loan must be referred to credit for acceptance. Credit manager referral is required to validate:

- That the repayment used for serviceability (being $0 or Interest Only) is appropriate, taking into consideration:
- Whether the loan has matured
- Whether the loan will be maturing in the very near term
- Whether it is reasonable to extend further borrowing to a customer with an ongoing existing Reverse Mortgage Loan

Detail explaining why the borrower is seeking additional borrowings as a standard loan product when they have an existing Reverse Mortgage loan

Supporting Information

Supporting Documentation requirements

|Reference/Acronym|Definition|
|---|---|
|LIR|Loan interest rate|
|Final Rate (New Loans)|LIR that applies to a new (internal) consumer mortgage loan, and: - Includes any life of loan rate adjustments or discounts, and
- Excludes short term or honeymoon rates / discounts
|
|Current Rate (Existing Loans)|LIR that applies to an existing (internal or external) consumer mortgage loan at time of application, and may include: - Any life of loan rate adjustments or discounts, or
- Fixed / short term / honeymoon rates or discounts
|
|Adjusted Current Rate|The higher of the: - Verified Current Rate, or
- Minimum Current Rate
|
|P&I|Principal and interest|
|PIF|Principal, interest and fees|
|IO|Interest Only|
|ICAP|Interest Capitalised|
|SAR|Serviceability Assessment Rate|

Serviceability Assessment Rate (SAR) - Mortgage

Link to original document

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

For new and existing consumer mortgage products only, an interest rate buffer and floor rate are considered in the Benchmark Repayment Amount calculation applied to the mortgage commitment, and the interest rate applied is the Serviceability Assessment Rate (SAR).

|Interest Rate|Policy rules|
|---|---|
|Interest rate buffer|The interest rate buffer is determined by the Bank; it reflects the potential for interest rate increases and seeks to ensure that potential increases in interest rates do not adversely impact on a borrower’s capacity to repay a consumer mortgage loan.|
|Floor Rate|The Bank maintains a minimum floor rate which is used in conjunction with the interest rate buffer. The floor rate is the lowest benchmark rate that the Bank has set for assessing a customer’s ability to repay the consumer mortgage loan.|
|Minimum Current Rate|Minimum Current Rate is determined by the Bank to reflect the minimum LIR that must be applied in the serviceability assessment, to an existing (internal or external) consumer mortgage loan. If the Current Rate is below this, then the Minimum Current Rate will automatically apply.|
|Serviceability Assessment Rate (SAR)|SAR refers to the interest rate which is applied in the Benchmark Repayment Amount calculation.|

For new (internal) consumer mortgage loans, SAR is the higher of the Final Rate plus Interest Rate Buffer, OR Floor Rate.

For existing (internal or external) consumer mortgage loans, SAR is the higher of the Adjusted Current Rate plus Interest Rate Buffer, OR Floor Rate.

Examples:

- If the Final Rate or Adjusted Current Rate on the loan plus the interest rate buffer of 3.00% p.a. is less than the Floor Rate, then the Floor Rate is applied as the SAR.
- If the Final Rate or Adjusted Current Rate on the loan plus the interest rate buffer of 3.00% p.a. is greater than the Floor Rate, then the Final Rate or Adjusted Current Rate on the loan plus the interest rate buffer is applied as the SAR.

Note: A modified SAR may be applied to applications to refinance an existing mortgage (internal or external), where the application meets all eligibility criteria and conditions under Streamlined Refinance.

# 2.10.2 Benchmark Repayment Amount - Mortgage

The Benchmark Repayment Amount is used as the Serviceability Repayment Amount for mortgages. The below table details the assessment period, interest rate (SAR) and repayment method used in the

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Scenario|Condition|Assessment Period|Interest Rate (SAR)|Commitment amount|Repayment method|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|P&I Loan (Variable)|Remaining Total Loan Term|Total Loan Term|Higher of: Final Rate plus Interest Rate Buffer Floor Rate (MCAR)|Higher of: Balance, or P&I Limit|P&I|
|P&I Loan (Fixed)|Remaining Total Loan Term is greater than Remaining Fixed Term|Total Loan Term|Higher of: Final Rate using Variable P&I LIR plus Interest Rate Buffer Floor Rate (MCAR)|Higher of: Balance, or P&I Limit|P&I|
|P&I Loan (Fixed)|Remaining Total Loan Term is equal to Remaining Fixed Term|Total Loan Term|Higher of: Final Rate using Fixed P&I LIR plus Interest Rate Buffer Floor Rate (MCAR)|Higher of: Balance, or P&I Limit|P&I|
|IO Loan (Variable)|Remaining Total Loan Term is greater than Remaining IO Term|Total Loan Term minus Remaining IO Term|Higher of: Final Rate using Variable IO LIR plus Interest Rate Buffer Floor Rate (MCAR)|Higher of: Balance, or P&I Limit|P&I|
|IO Loan (Variable)|Remaining Total Loan Term is equal to Remaining IO Term|Total Loan Term|Higher of: Final Rate using Variable IO LIR plus Interest Rate Buffer Floor Rate (MCAR)|Higher of: Balance, or P&I Limit|P&I|
|IO Loan (Fixed)|Remaining Total Loan Term is greater than Remaining IO Term|Total Loan Term minus Remaining IO Term|Higher of: Final Rate using Variable P&I LIR plus Interest Rate Buffer Floor Rate (MCAR)|Higher of: Balance, or P&I Limit|P&I|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

# Benchmark Repayment Amount calculation – New (internal) mortgage(s)

|Scenario|Condition|Assessment Period|Interest Rate (SAR)|Commitment amount|Repayment method|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|IO Loan (Fixed)|Remaining Total Loan Term is equal to Remaining IO Term|Higher of: Final Rate using Fixed IO LIR plus Interest Rate Buffer|Higher of: Final Rate using Fixed IO LIR plus Interest Rate Buffer Floor Rate (MCAR)|Higher of: Balance, or P&I Limit| |
|IO Loan (Fixed)|Remaining Total Loan Term is equal to Remaining IO Term|Higher of: Final Rate using Variable IO LIR plus Interest Rate Buffer|Higher of: Final Rate using Variable IO LIR plus Interest Rate Buffer Floor Rate (MCAR)|Higher of: Balance, or P&I Limit| |
|Bridging Loan - New|Where Bridging loan is not ‘new’ refer to ‘Bridging / Relocation – Existing’|ICAP|N/A|N/A|The loan and capitalised interest is to be repaid by property sale proceeds|
|Bridging / Relocation – Existing|ICAP|No lending or approval (including ‘In Principle Approval’) is available if the application involves an existing Bridging Loan that is not being cleared using| | | |

Note: I/O not available via OBP

Note: any residual (ongoing) liability is to be assessed separately

# Benchmark Repayment Amount calculation – New (internal) mortgage(s)

|Scenario|Condition|Assessment Period|Interest Rate (SAR)|Commitment amount|Repayment method|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|- Existing|I/O loan funds (refinance) or customer funds prior to drawdown of the new loan (non-refinance).| | | | |
|Note: Any residual (ongoing) liability is to be assessed separately|For a clearing Bridging / Relocation loan (ICAP or I/O), refer to: Commitment being refinanced using Loan funds > Any liability is being cleared and closed using loan funds|Excluded mortgaged liability > A mortgage liability is to be cleared and closed independently by the customer via the associated property sale, after Unconditional Approval but prior to or simultaneous with drawdown / settlement|Amended current commitment > Any liability will be cleared and closed independently by the customer, prior to Unconditional Approval| | |

# Benchmark Repayment Amount calculation – Existing (internal or external1) mortgage(s)

|Scenario|Condition|Assessment Period|Interest Rate (SAR)|Commitment amount|Repayment method|Eligible for an apportioned Serviceability Repayment Amount?|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|P&I Loan|Fixed or Variable|Remaining Total Loan Term|Higher of: Adjusted Current Rate plus Interest Rate Buffer Floor Rate (MCAR)|Higher of: Balance, or Limit|P&I|Yes|
|IO Loan|Remaining Total Loan Term is greater than Remaining IO Term|Remaining Total Loan Term minus Remaining IO Term|Higher of: Adjusted Current Rate plus Interest Rate Buffer Floor Rate (MCAR)|Higher of: Balance, or Limit|P&I|Yes|

|Policy|Fixed or Variable|Floor Rate (MCAR)|
|---|---|---|
|WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy| | |

|Loan Type|IO Loan|
|---|---|
|Remaining Total Loan Term = Remaining Total Loan Term|Remaining Total Loan Term|
|Fixed or Variable| |
|IO Term|Fixed or Variable|
|IO Term|Buffer Floor Rate (MCAR)|

|Loan Type|Secured Line of Credit|
|---|---|
|If no contracted term|240 months|
|Buffer Floor Rate (MCAR)| |

|Loan Type|Secured Line of Credit Loan|
|---|---|
|With a contracted term|Remaining Total Term|
|Buffer Floor Rate (MCAR)| |

|Loan Type|Reverse Mortgage Loan|
|---|---|
|ICAP|NA|
|Higher of: Adjusted Current Rate|NA|

|Loan Type|Reverse Mortgage Loan|
|---|---|
|IO Non ICAP|NA|
|Higher of: Adjusted Current Rate|NA|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Secured by a|Secured Overdraft| | |
|---|---|---|---|
|Secured by a consumer mortgage loan security| |NA| |
| | | |Higher of:|Adjusted Current Rate plus Interest Rate Buffer Floor Rate (MCAR)|
|No lending or approval (including ‘In Principle Approval’) is available if the application involves an existing Bridging Loan that is not being cleared using loan funds (refinance) or customer funds prior to drawdown of the new loan (non-refinance).| | | |

# ICAP or I/O (non - ICAP)

For a clearing Bridging loan (ICAP or I/O), refer to:

- Commitment being refinanced using Loan funds > Any liability is being cleared and closed using loan funds
- Excluded mortgaged liability > A mortgage liability is to be cleared and closed independently by the customer via the associated property sale, after Unconditional Approval but prior to or simultaneous with drawdown / settlement
- Amended current commitment > Any liability will be cleared and closed independently by the customer, prior to Unconditional Approval

# Legend

1 SGB, BoM, BSA and RAMS are considered to be external providers

# Parental leave – use of ‘return to work’ income

When a borrower or income guarantor is currently on, or about to commence parental leave, we can use their ‘return to work’ income for serviceability, provided the requirements are met.

# Exclusions

Any other extended leave like Grandparental Leave or Career Breaks are ineligible.

# Condition

In all cases where ‘return income’ is to be used for serviceability

An employer’s letter is held which:

- Meets Document Standards of ‘Employer’s letter - general use’
- Displays:
- The return to work date.
- Conditions under which the employee will return, i.e. Full time or Part time
- Return to work income as per the 'Document Standards’ of ‘Employer’s letter-general use’
- Only ‘Base income’ can be used in the serviceability assessment

Link to more information

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Include all children as dependants in OBP. (Including where pe expected child(ren) has / have not yet been born, noting pis is a variance to pe "Definition of Dependant" rules in pe Living Expense policy).
Any supporting documents provided are required to be retained in pe loan application.

Where the loan will be advanced and the first repayment is due after the return to work date

For Mortgage insured and Non-mortgage insured loans
Use ‘Return to Work’ income i.e. reflecting pe gross ‘base’ income amount which will be received once returning to work.

For Mortgage insured loans:

- Requests for new or increased loans for purposes of “Investment” are not acceptable.

All other requirements as per below

For both Mortgage insured and Non-mortgage insured loans:

The following is required to calculate any servicing shortfall prior to the return to work:

The expected settlement date (mandatory); and
Any income pat is currently, or will be received during pe parental leave period must be verified to policy, refer Verifying Income; and The number of weeks pat pe income will be received during pe parental leave period; and
The ‘Return to Work’ gross ‘base’ income amount pat will be received once returning to work and pe return-to-work date.

Where a servicing shortfall amount is evident, the Broker must:

- Confirm how the shortfall will be covered whilst during the parental leave period; and
- Verify that sufficient funds are held to cover the shortfall via supporting documents (e.g. bank statement / transaction listing from external provider1, internal extract or enquiry). The shortfall must be covered in addition to any funds required to fund the application. The supporting documents provided must meet Document Standards; and
- Enter comments into ApplyOnline detailing the explanation and the evidence used to confirm how the shortfall will be met, prior to return to work.

Legend

1 SGB, BoM, BSA and RAMS are considered to be external providers

Note: If the applicant is seeking to manage existing home loans, Mortgage Repayment Pause Option or switching to Interest Only repayments may better suit the customer’s situation.

2.12 Rental income tax deductions for Australian investment properties (Negative Gearing)

Definition: Generally negative gearing occurs when a rental property’s expenses (including interest) are greater than income earned from the rental property.

The Australian tax system allows individuals with rental properties that are negatively geared, to deduct the loss against other income (e.g. PAYG income).

|Serviceability|The use of negative gearing in serviceability is not mandatory|
|---|---|
|Eligibility|Negative gearing can be included in the serviceability assessment under the following conditions:|

|Feature|Condition|
|---|---|
|Application type|Available for both non-mortgage insured and mortgage insured loans|
|Employment type|Available for both PAYG and Self Employed customers|
| |The applicant’s income must be subject to Australian taxation law, i.e. applicant is ordinarily resident in Australia and Loan serviceability must not be assessed using the Self-Employed fast track process unless the rental income commenced after the financial years covered by the ATO NOA. Refer to Self-employed Customers &gt; Self-employed assessment methods &gt; Fast Track|
|Income|The actual current interest rate must be used in the negative gearing calculation|
| |The deduction can only be applied to an applicant who is a borrower on the loan which is being negatively geared|
| |The loan must be / have been taken out for the purpose of investing in residential real estate|
| |For both an existing mortgage or the new loan, negative gearing benefits can be included when all or part of a loan is for the purpose of investing in the specific rental property negative gearing is being applied to|
| |Only the loan portion used for investing in the specific rental property negative gearing is being applied to can be used. The customer must declare the amount of the loan that is eligible or that is already being negatively geared|
| |The amount of negative gearing used May include: the purchase price of the property|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Verification
As per Commitments policy
Residential property that the negative gearing applies to

The rental income cannot be from a National Disability Insurance Scheme (NDIS), Specialist Disability Accommodation (SDA) property

Construction Loans (internal) with progress payments attached

Serviceability Assessment: Changes to financial circumstance

As part of our responsible lending obligations, it is required to ask the customer about potential changes to their financial position over the next three years that would adversely affect their ability to meet their financial obligations under the loan.

Where a property is under construction and the loan is not yet fully drawn, OBP will consider the lower of the approved limit (fully drawn), the current balance or the deductible balance in the negative gearing calculation.

When serviceability is not met due to no negative gearing benefit, where the loan is not yet fully drawn, the application may be referred to Credit with a manual servicing assessment reflecting the negative gearing benefit based on the approved limit (fully drawn) of the construction loan

The percentage of tax deduction for Bank serviceability purposes that an applicant may claim is based on their share of property ownership.

The property securing the loan must not be vacant land

The property must have rental income verified in line with policy and used in the serviceability assessment

The property must be owned by an individual (not a partnership, company or trust including an individual as trustee for (ATF))

When the property is rented on a short term basis, a rental income tax deduction / negative gearing can only be applied in serviceability when the property is already owned and the rental schedule confirms the property was rented / available for rent, for the full 52 weeks of the financial year. Also see Verifying Income policy > Supplementary Income > Rental income (in AUD) Rent received on a short term basis.

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Where such a change is expected, the customer is required to disclose:

- The nature of the change (see below)
- Their plans for continuing to meet the loan repayments (see below)

Nature of the change

The nature of change must be captured using the following declaration:

Declaration question to customer
Nature of Change
Is extended unpaid leave (e.g. maternity) pe nature of pe expected change?
Is end of contract/loss of employment pe nature of pe expected change?
Is reduced income pe nature of pe expected change?
Is retirement pe nature of pe expected change?
Is leaving employment pe nature of pe expected change?
Is medical treatment/illness pe nature of pe expected change?
Is increase in debt repayments pe nature of pe expected change?
Is large expenditure pe nature of pe expected change?
Is pe nature of pe expected change none of pe above, reflected here as Oper?

Plans to meet loan repayments

Will you continue to make repayments using savings?
Does pe information captured in pe application already reflect pe anticipated change?
Will you continue to make repayments by securing additional income?
Will you continue to make repayments by reducing expenditure?
Will you continue to make repayments by pe sale of oper assets?
Will you continue to make repayments by pe sale of your principal residence?
Will you continue to make repayments by oper means?

Approval

- Applications require approval from a Credit (or other authorised CAL holder) where:
- The customer advises that such a change is expected, and
- The application does not already reflect the change to the customer's financial situation (i.e. the application has not been assessed on the basis of the change)

All submissions to Credit for approval must include justification for the override request.

2.14 Debt To Income (DTI) Ratio

Loan assessment measure ‘Debt To Income Ratio’ assists Westpac Group to apply responsible lending practices in assessing a customer’s ability to service existing and proposed debts.

2.14.1 DTI Ratio Calculation

|Measure|Definition|
|---|---|
|Debt|Total of the higher of limit / balance of all borrower and Income Reliant Guarantor's new and existing liabilities excluding: Hire purchase, Leasing, Other Liabilities Any liabilities being cleared and closed in the submission, whether by customer or loan funds|

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710 38/73

Bridging Loans (applies to new or existing, internal or external, IO or ICAP repayments)

Where a debt is being:
reduced in pe submission, wheper by customer or loan funds, pe New limit is used in lieu of pe Current Limit for DTI calculation
apportioned, pe entire commitment value (higher of balance/limit) is used in pe DTI calculation (not pe apportioned value)
e.g. Debt = $500,000

Total gross unshaded annual income from borrower/s and income guarantor (WBC only)

(including gross rental income and all other income types)

e.g. Income= $65,000

|DTI Ratio|Debt ÷ Income|
|---|---|
|Calculation|e.g. $500,000 (Debt) ÷ $65,000 (Income)= 7.69 DTI ratio|

2.14.2 High DTI Ratio - Commentary and Referral to Credit

OBP will return a DTI ratio Credit referral rule where:

- the DTI ratio is equal to or greater than seven (7) and less than ten (10) and:
- the LVR is greater than 80%, and/or
- LMI applies
- the DTI ratio is equal to or greater than ten (10).

In all instances where the DTI ratio is equal to or greater than seven (7), brokers/assessors must provide appropriate notes and comments in their submission to the effect that:

- They have discussed the level of debt to income with the borrower(s) noting the debt level appears relatively high
- They have identified any specific circumstances that are contributing to the high DTI result, such as other income not able to be included in the DTI calculation
- Where any other policy rules have been triggered in addition to DTI, that valid mitigants can be demonstrated
- They have validated the customers’ ability to meet repayments on the proposed loan noting the high DTI ratio
- They have documented any other relevant rationale to support why the deal should still be approved

Where the application triggers a Credit referral, Credit will review the application with consideration applied to:

- the notes and comments in the submission
- the LVR, level of monthly surplus, credit history (including anything adverse on their credit bureau) and level of income
- any other policy exceptions or rules triggered

2.15 Judgemental assessment

Some customers may exhibit circumstances where their financial situation needs to be considered as an exception by Credit (or other authorised CAL holder).

Change History

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|1|3 November 2021|First OBP issue online for Brokers on the OKA platform.|
|2|10 November 2021|Links updated|
|3|10 November 2021|Buffer Rate updated as per policy change 29 October 2021. APRA direction to increase the interest rate buffer from 2.5% to 3.0% STSL repayment income threshold table updated to reflect the ATO income thresholds and rates for 2021 - 2022. Added 4 new BNPL providers, PayPal Payin4, Klarna, PayItLater, StepPay. Updated the Customer declared Living Expenses not compared to HEM with the following: Where the serviceability assessment includes self-employed income, Refer to Self-employed Applicants > Rental income - Fully verified self-employed assessment and Rental income - Fast track self-employed assessment. Updated the scenarios In the "Rental income tax deductions for Australian investment properties (Negative Gearing) section. HEM Updates for Quarter 2, 2021.|
|4|21 November 2021|Where the serviceability assessment includes self-employed income, Refer to Self-employed Applicants > Rental income - Fully verified self-employed assessment and Rental income - Fast track self-employed assessment. Updated the scenarios In the "Rental income tax deductions for Australian investment properties (Negative Gearing) section. HEM Updates for Quarter 2, 2021. Change 1: HEM Updates for Quarter 3, 2021. Change 2: Section - 2.12 Rental income tax deductions for Australian investment properties (negative gearing). Editing correction from 'Generically, negative gearing occurs when...' to 'Generally, negative gearing occurs when....' Change 3: Commitments > Serviceability repayment amount > commitment type > Personal loan has been updated to reflect that servicing will now be assessed on the higher of customer declared contracted repayment amount or Derived. Old - serviceability repayment amount monthly figure. Customer Declared Contracted Repayment Amount. New - serviceability repayment amount monthly figure. Higher of: The customer declared contracted repayment amount, or Derived repayment (based on the higher of the limit or balance, remaining P&I term* and benchmark interest rate). *Where the term field is left blank, the remaining term will default to 12 months. Note: In all cases, where there is a Balloon payment applicable, it will not be included in the derived repayment calculation, on the basis that balloon amount will be covered by the return of the asset at the end of the loan agreement.|
|5|20 February 2022|Updated section 2.5.1 'Default changed commitment' rule (deleted text highlighted in bold below). Change made to align with policy change approved on 22 Nov 2020 (as per historical governance section), when|
|6|3 April 2022|Updated section 2.5.1 'Default changed commitment' rule (deleted text highlighted in bold below). Change made to align with policy change approved on 22 Nov 2020 (as per historical governance section), when|

Link: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|7|22 May 2022|Change 1 Updated section ‘Serviceability Repayment Amount’ relating to Personal Loans: - Moved details of the ‘derived’ repayment amount calculation from ‘Serviceability Repayment Amount Monthly Figure’ column to the ‘Benchmark Repayment Amount’ column, and included the interest rate of 10.97% pa for visibility- this is a clarification only change, reflecting the existing calculation
- Updated ‘Serviceability Repayment Amount Monthly Figure’ column to specify that the figure used is the higher of ‘Customer Declared Contracted Repayment Amount’ or ‘Benchmark Repayment Amount’. This is a clarification only change, reflecting existing rules and made to support the change detailed above
|
|8|17 July 2022|Change 1 Updated section ‘Rules > Serviceability Repayment Amount’: - Split the existing 'Buy Now, Pay Later commitments' from providers other than Afterpay, Laybuy, Sezzle, Deferit, PayPal Payin4, Klarna, PayItLater, StepPay’ into two sub-categories with unique rules:
- - ‘Buy Now Pay Later-Fixed Term’ –serviceability assessed using the ‘Customer Declared Contracted Repayment Amount’
- ‘Buy Now Pay Later-Revolving Term’- serviceability assessed using a ‘Benchmark Repayment Amount’ of 3.8% of the higher of limit/balance
Note: both of the above previously had:
- - a ‘Benchmark Repayment Amount’ calculation applied of ‘Outstanding balance% remaining term plus fees’
- serviceability assessed using the higher of the ‘Benchmark Repayment Amount’ or the ‘Customer Declared Contracted Repayment Amount’
Updated section ‘Rules > Amended current commitment’:
|

Amendment number 7:

- Apportioned shared commitment became available for LMI (subject to credit approval at that time):
- - Where serviceability fails due to the ‘Default shared commitment rule’, the ‘Apportioned shared commitment rule’ may be considered if the loan does not require Lenders Mortgage Insurance
- Updated section ‘2.5.2 Apportioned shared commitment rule”:

Change 2: HEM Updates for Quarter 4, 2021
- Change 3:

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |Changed scenario name to 'Buy Now Pay Later-Fixed Term' commitment / order, where its contracted clearance date is after Unconditional Approval but prior to drawdown / settlement. Added a note ‘This option is not available for ‘Buy Now Pay Later-Revolving Term’.|
|9|26 July 2022|Updated Section 2.9 Bridging / Relocation and Reverse Mortgage Loans. Changed heading to ‘Reverse Mortgage Loans’. Removed information relating to Credit referral requirements for ongoing existing ‘Bridging / Relocation’ loans. Credit referral is no longer required, as no lending or approval (including ‘In Principle Approval’) is permitted for ongoing existing ‘Bridging / Relocation’ loans.|

# Change 2

- Updated section Parental Leave – use of ‘return to work’ income. Moved policy specific rules from notes section of the table to the requirements section. To reflect the new process requirements to enable OBP to calculate any servicing shortfall during the parental leave period. Clarified the requirements for verifying the source of any shortfall during the parental leave period.
- Updated section ‘Credit’ to refer to Parental Leave – use of ‘return to work’ income where the applicant is seeking to use return to work income and/or will be on a reduced income due to pending parental leave.
- Updated section Frequently asked questions to remove duplicated FAQ.

# Change 2

- Updated section 2.9.1 Bridging / Relocation and Reverse Mortgage Loan – supporting documentation and information. Changed heading to ‘Reverse Mortgage Loan – supporting documentation and information’. Removed information relating to ongoing existing ‘Bridging / Relocation’ loans. Supporting documents are no longer required, as no lending or approval (including ‘In Principle Approval’) is permitted for ongoing existing ‘Bridging / Relocation’ loans. Deleted section ‘Existing Bridging / Relocation loan: Asset Value’. Asset value assessment is no longer required, as no lending or approval (including ‘In Principle Approval’) is permitted for ongoing existing ‘Bridging / Relocation’ loans.

# Change 3

- Section 2.10.2 Benchmark Repayment Amount. Updated table ‘Benchmark repayment amount - New and existing internal mortgage’. Separated scenarios into Bridging Loan - New (ICAP) and Bridging / Relocation Loans - Existing (ICAP and IO (non- ICAP)). Policy rules for Bridging Loan – New (ICAP) are unchanged. Removed Bridging Loans – new (IO) as they cannot presently be originated by OBP, i.e. only ICAP product is available. Added a new rule for Bridging / Relocation Loans – existing (ICAP and IO (non ICAP), to specify that no lending or approval (including ‘In Principle Approval’) is available if the application involves an existing Bridging Loan that is not being cleared using loan funds (refinance) or customer.

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |Updated table ‘Benchmark repayment amount - External existing mortgage’: - Separated scenarios into ‘Reverse Mortgage IO Loan, ‘Reverse Mortgage ICAP Loan’ and ‘Bridging Loan (ICAP or IO (non-ICAP)’ - Policy rules for ‘Reverse Mortgage IO Loan, ‘Reverse Mortgage ICAP Loan’ are unchanged - Added a new rule for ‘Bridging Loan (ICAP or IO (non- ICAP)’, to specify that no lending or approval (including ‘In Principle Approval’) is available if the application involves an existing Bridging Loan that is not being cleared using loan funds (refinance) or customer funds prior to drawdown of the new loan (non-refinance). Included links to the policy rules relating to clearing loans|
| | |Updated section Study and Training Support Loan (STSL) Repayment Income Thresholds with 2022-2023 income thresholds|
| | |Updated HEM table update - attached HEM table for Q1 2022|
| |21 August 2022|Updated references to the ‘Minimum Document Standards Matrix’. The matrix has been superseded, with all matrix rules transferred into the main body of the ‘Document Standards’ chapter. Existing references have been updated to point to the ‘Document Standards’ chapter Updated references to match sub-section name changes made within the ‘Document Standards’ chapter|
|10|21 August 2022|Update section DTI referral to Credit to remove reference to Bridging Loans, i.e: From - They have identified any specific circumstances that are contributing to the high DTI result, such as a bridging loan or other income not able to be included in the DTI calculation - Any specific drivers of high DTI such as bridging loans or other income not able to be included in the DTI calculation To - They have identified any specific circumstances that are contributing to the high DTI result, such as other income not able to be included in the DTI calculation - Any specific drivers of high DTI such as other income not able to be included in the DTI calculation|
|11|2 October 2022|Updated section ‘DTI Calculation’ to remove ‘Study and Training Support Loans (STSL)’ as an excluded liability type for DTI (‘STSL’ now included in DTI)|
| |2 October 2022|Updated section ‘Serviceability Repayment Amount’ to include a link to ‘Commitments > Process to Follow’ for the commitment types: - Margin Loans - Cards|
| | |Update to content in 2.2 Debt service coverage ratio|

Link: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes| | |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| | |Old| | |
| | |DSC Table| | |
|Feature| | |Minimum DSC|No LMI|With LMI|
| | |LVR ≤ 80%|1.00|1.00|
| |1.00 if LMI exemption applies under Special Packages (Medico, Proloan, Staff loans), otherwise: Not applicable| |1.00| |
| | |LVR > 80%| |1.00|
| | |Foreign income|1.15|NA|
|Serviced apartment, hotels and student accommodation| | |1.25|NA|
|Building loan - Owner Builder| | |1.00|NA|
| | |New| | |
| | |DSC Table| | |
|Feature| | |Minimum DSC|No LMI|With LMI|
| | |LVR ≤ 80%|1.00|1.00|
| |1.00 if LMI exemption applies under Special Packages (Medico, Proloan, Staff loans), otherwise: Not applicable| |1.00| |
| | |LVR > 80%| |1.00|
| | |Foreign income|1.15|NA|
|Student accommodation| | |1.25|NA|
|Building loan - Owner Builder| | |1.00|NA|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|Change 4| |Policy clarification – impacted section 2.12 Rental income tax deductions for Australian investment properties (negative gearing) > Serviceability > Scenario table|
|Old| |Investment property owned by an entity Entity is the borrower Not eligible to use rental income tax deduction / negative gearing for serviceability assessment Refer to Self-employed applicants policy > rules you must apply > Rental income - Fully verified self-employed assessment.|
|New| |Investment property purchased by an entity Entity is the borrower Not eligible to use rental income tax deduction / negative gearing for serviceability assessment Refer to Self-employed applicants policy > rules you must apply > Rental income - Fully verified self-employed assessment.|
|Change 5| |Policy clarification – impacted section 2.12 Rental income tax deductions for Australian investment properties (negative gearing) > Eligibility table > Feature|
|Old| |The investment property must not be rented on an intermittent basis. This includes but is not limited to: Rental arrangement Holiday homes Snow lease Serviced apartments The rental income cannot be from a National Disability Insurance Scheme (NDIS), Specialist Disability Accommodation (SDA) property|
|New| |The rental income cannot be from a National Disability Insurance Scheme (NDIS), Specialist Disability Accommodation (SDA) property|
|Change 6| |Updated section ‘ Why this policy?’: Included words and link highlighted in bold a servicing (variation) activity requiring a serviceability assessment|

Link to the policy changes

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|Change 1|20 November 2022|Updated HEM table – attached HEM table for Q2 2022 Update to wording in section 2.8.3 Month Household Expenditure Measure – Table Old wording: For household incomes greater than $574k gross per annum the origination system will extrapolate the HEM value using the following calculation: New wording: For household incomes greater than $584k gross per annum the origination system will extrapolate the HEM value using the following calculation|
|Change 2|13 February 2023|Updated section 2.5.3 Serviceability Repayment Amount for Hire purchase commitment type: Old wording: Customer Declared Contracted Repayment Amount New wording: Contracted Repayment Amount|
|Change 3|19 February 2023|New content added to section 2.12 rental income tax deductions for Australian investment properties (Negative Gearing) > Eligibility table > Feature > Property Type Old wording: The property securing the loan must not be vacant land The property must have rental income entered and verified in line with policy New wording: - The property securing the loan must not be vacant land
- The property must have rental income entered and verified in line with policy
- When the property is rented on a short term basis, a rental income tax deduction / negative gearing can only be applied in serviceability when the property is already owned and the rental schedule confirms the property was rented / available for rent, for the full 52 weeks of the financial year.
- Also see Verifying Income policy > Supplementary Income > Rental income (in AUD) Rent received on a short term basis.
|

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |other than: Afterpay, Laybuy, Sezzle, Deferit, PayPal Payin4, Klarna, PayItLater, StepPay Formatting changed, rules have remained the same Old format 'Buy Now, Pay Later commitments' from providers other than: Afterpay Laybuy Sezzle Deferit PayPal Payin4 Klarna PayItLater StepPay 'Buy Now Pay Later - Fixed Term' Refer to applicable ‘Buy Now Pay Later’ account type below: 'Buy Now Pay Later - Fixed Term' Customer Declared N/A Contracted No Repayment Amount 'Buy Now Pay Later - Revolving Term' 3.8% of higher of limit / balance Benchmark Repayment Amount No|
| | |Refer to Glossary ‘Buy Now Pay Later - Fixed Term' Customer Declared N/A Contracted No Repayment Amount 'Buy Now Pay Later - Revolving Term' 3.8% of higher of limit / balance Benchmark Repayment Amount No|
| | |‘Buy Now Pay Later - Fixed Term' Refer to Glossary for definition ‘Buy Now Pay Later - Revolving Term' 3.8% of higher of limit / balance Benchmark Repayment Amount No Refer to Glossary for definition|

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710 47/73

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|Change 3| |Update to section 2.5.3 Serviceability repayment amount for commitment types &gt; Rental / board expense|
| | |Old wording|
| | |Rental / board expense - Refer to Rent / board expense|
| | |New wording|
| | |Rental - N/A - The higher of either: No Borrower's residential housing status is defined as 'Rent', 'Board' or 'Live with parents' and they will not be residing in the security collateral after purchase or final drawdown|
| | |Refer to Glossary for definition of a: Boarder, Renter|
| | |Note: In OBP outgoing rent / board is categorised as an expense (non-discretionary)|

Verifying rent / board expense: In OBP outgoing rent / board is categorised as an expense (non-discretionary)

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

Amendment Table

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|Change 4| |Section 2.6 Rent / Board expense has been deleted and content moved to 2.5.3 Serviceability Repayment amount.|
| | |Deleted content|
|Expense included when:|Serviceability is assessed at:|Other policy rules|
|The borrower's residential housing status is defined as 'Rent', 'Board' or 'Live with parents' and they will not be residing in the security collateral after purchase or final drawdown|The higher of either: 100% of actual monthly commitment (it is acceptable for a declared amount to be $0 or greater), or Notional Rent expense amount|Where multiple tenants are on a lease, it is acceptable for the actual monthly commitment to be a portion of the total contracted rent. For information about how to verify outgoing declared rent and/or outgoing declared board refer to Commitments policy|
|Change 5| |Name change for section 2.6 Notional rent expense amount.|
| | |New section name 2.6 Notional rent expense|
| | |Update to content in this section|
| | |Old wording: Where a borrower or (any) income guarantor (Spousal-Income Guarantee or Spousal-Income + Security Guarantee) has the residential status of Rent / Board or Living with Parents and they will not be residing in the security property after purchase or drawdown, a minimum rental outgo will be applied to the serviceability assessment. Refer to table below for the notional rent rule applicable to your application.|

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|All borrower types| |Borrower Residential status: Living with spousal partner|
| | |Borrower lives in their spousal partner's home, but is not an owner of that property. The borrower has declared $0 outgoing rent/board amount.|
| | |Notional Rent Rule: Notional rent WILL NOT apply|
|All borrower types| |Will reside in the security property upon completion of construction|
| | |Notional Rent Rule: Notional rent WILL NOT apply|
|Individual| |Rental arrangement: Borrower lives in a rental property and rental amount is verified through one of the acceptable documents|
| | |Notional Rent Rule: Notional Rent WILL apply to the individual where the declared amount is below $650.00 per month. Notional Rent CANNOT be excluded from serviceability assessment.|
|Joint with spouse| |Rental arrangement: Borrowers living in the same rental property and rental amount is verified through one of the acceptable documents|
| | |Notional Rent Rule: Notional Rent WILL apply at household level where the declared amount is below $650.00 per month. Notional Rent CANNOT be excluded from serviceability assessment.|
|Joint with spouse| |Rental arrangement: Borrowers who are not living in the same rental property and rental amount is verified through one of the acceptable documents|
| | |Notional Rent Rule: Notional Rent WILL apply to each applicant where the declared amount is below $650.00 per month.|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |Rent CANNOT be excluded from serviceability assessment.|
| | |Notional Rent WILL apply to each applicant where the declared amount is below $650.00 per month|
|Joint with non-spouse| |Rental arrangement Borrowers living in a rental property (may be the same or different address) and rental amount is verified through one of the acceptable documents.|
| | |Notional Rent CANNOT be excluded from serviceability assessment.|
| | |Notional Rent WILL apply to the individual where the declared amount is below $650.00 per month|
|Individual| |Living with Parents or other boarding arrangement Borrower lives with parents or other boarding arrangement and has declared $0 or greater than $0 outgoing rent / board|
| | |Notional Rent CANNOT be excluded from serviceability assessment.|
| | |Notional Rent WILL apply at household level where the declared amount is below $650.00 per month|
|Joint with spouse| |Living with Parents or other boarding arrangement Both borrowers living with the same with parent(s) or with the same boarding arrangement and has declared $0 or greater than $0 outgoing rent / board|
| | |Notional Rent CANNOT be excluded from serviceability assessment.|
| | |Notional Rent WILL apply to each applicant where the declared amount is below $650.00 per month|
|Joint with spouse| |Living with Parents or other boarding arrangement Each borrower living at a different address, with parents or other boarding arrangement and has|
| | |Notional Rent CANNOT be|

excluded from serviceability assessment.

Notional Rent WILL apply to each applicant where the declared amount is below $650.00 per month

Source

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |Declared $0 or greater than $0 outgoing rent / board excluded from serviceability assessment.|
| | |Notional Rent WILL apply to Living with Parents or other boarding arrangement for each applicant where the declared amount is below $650.00 per month.|
|Joint with non-spouse| |Borrower lives with parents or other boarding arrangement and has declared $0 or greater than $0 outgoing rent / board. Notional Rent CANNOT be excluded from serviceability assessment.|
| | |Living with spousal partner. Borrower lives in their spousal partner's home, but is not an owner of that property and the spouse is not a borrower or guarantor on the loan. Notional Rent WILL apply to each applicant where the declared amount is below $650.00 per month.|
|Individual| |The borrower has declared greater than $0 outgoing rent / board amount. Notional Rent CANNOT be excluded from serviceability assessment.|
| | |Living with spousal partner. Borrower lives in their spousal partner's home, but is not an owner of that property and the spouse is a co-borrower on the loan. Notional Rent WILL apply to the individual where the declared amount is below $650.00 per month.|
|Joint with spouse| |The borrower has declared greater than $0 outgoing rent / board amount. Notional Rent CANNOT be excluded from serviceability assessment.|
|New wording| |Where a borrower or (any) income guarantor (WBC only) (Spousal-Income Guarantee or Spousal-Income + Security Guarantee) is Renting, Boarding or Living with Parents at the time of application, and they: Will be residing in the security property after purchase or drawdown, notional rent will not apply. This includes where a property is under|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |construction, and it will be occupied by the borrower(s) upon completion. Will not be residing in the security property after purchase or drawdown, a minimum notional rental outgo will be applied to the serviceability assessment. Refer to ‘Borrower Type’ in table below.|
| | |For how to verify outgoing rent or board refer to Commitments policy > Customer commitments: Outgoing board Outgoing rent|
| | |Refer to Glossary for definition of a: Boarder Renter|

|Borrower Type|Residential status|Declared outgo|Notional Rent Rule|
|---|---|---|---|
|Individual|Living with parents or other boarding arrangement| | |
| |Rental arrangement| | |
| |Living with spousal partner| |Notional rent WILL NOT apply|
| |Borrower lives in their spousal partner's home and Borrower is not an owner of that property and Spouse is / is not a co-borrower or income guarantor (WBC only) on the loan|Borrower has declared $0 outgoing rent / board amount|Serviceability will be assessed on the higher of: Actual / declared monthly amount Or Notional Rent $650.00 pm applied at an applicant level|
| | |Borrower has declared > $0 outgoing rent / board|Notional Rent WILL apply to the individual and CANNOT be excluded from serviceability assessment. Serviceability will|
| | | |Notional rent WILL apply to the individual and CANNOT be excluded from serviceability assessment.|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|Living with parents or other boarding arrangement| |Both borrowers living with the same parent(s) or in the same boarding arrangement|
|Rental arrangement| |Both borrowers living in the same rental property|
|Joint with spouse| |Living with parents or other boarding arrangement|
| | |Each borrower living at a different address, either with parents or other boarding arrangement|
|Rental arrangement| |Borrowers are not living in the same rental property|
| | |Notional Rent WILL apply at household level and CANNOT be excluded from serviceability assessment.|
|Borrowers have declared &gt;= $0 outgoing rent / board| |Serviceability will be assessed on the higher of: Actual / declared monthly amount Or Notional Rent $650.00 per month applied at household level Notional Rent WILL apply to each applicant and CANNOT be excluded from serviceability assessment|
|Borrowers have declared &gt;= $0 outgoing rent / board| |Serviceability will be assessed on the higher of: Actual / declared monthly amount Or Notional Rent $650.00 pm applied at an applicant level|

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |Notional Rent Living with Parents or other boarding arrangement Borrower lives with parents or other boarding arrangement|
| | |Borrowers have declared >= $0 outgoing rent / board Serviceability will be assessed on the higher of: Actual / declared monthly amount|
| | |Rental arrangement Borrowers living in a rental property (may be the same or different address) Notional Rent $650.00 pm applied at an applicant level|
| | |Joint with non-spouse Borrower(s) has declared $0 outgoing rent / board|
| | |Living with spousal partner Borrower(s) live in their spousal partner's home and Borrower(s) is not an owner of that property Notional Rent will apply to the individual and cannot be excluded from serviceability assessment.|
| | |Borrower has declared > $0 outgoing rent / board Serviceability will be assessed on the higher of: Actual / declared monthly amount Or Notional Rent $650.00 pm applied to the individual|

Legend: 1 Spouse = married or de facto 2 Borrower does not reside in a property which they

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

Amendment Amendment Description of changes number issue date already own, and they will not be residing in the security property after purchase or drawdown.

Change 6 Updated section ‘Rental income tax deductions for Australian investment properties (Negative Gearing) &gt; Eligibility’ Old wording For a new purchase the proposed deductible loan amount may include the purchase price of the property and any associated costs in obtaining the investment property such as stamp duty, legal costs and lenders mortgage insurance New wording For a new purchase, the proposed deductible loan amount: may include: the purchase price of the property any associated costs in obtaining the investment property such as stamp duty, legal costs and capitalised lenders mortgage insurance premium cannot exceed the actual loan amount

Change 7 Update to content in section 2.5 Commitments Old wording Borrower and income guarantor (WBC only) (Spousal-Income Guarantee or Spousal-Income plus Security Guarantee) commitments are considered in serviceability. Refer to Guarantees All existing debts are to be reflected in the application, regardless of whether they are to be closed, reduced or continued after the loan activity being assessed. Also refer to Commitments policy. New wording The Borrowers and any income guarantor (WBC only) (Spousal-Income Guarantee or Spousal-Income plus Security Guarantee – refer to Guarantees policy) commitments are considered in serviceability. All existing debts are to be reflected in the application, regardless of whether they are to be closed, reduced or continued after the loan activity being assessed. Also refer to Commitments policy.

Change 8 Update to wording in section 2.5.1 Default shared commitment rule Old wording Where an existing facility is shared with another borrower ( i.e. &gt;1 borrower on a loan ): The ‘Default shared commitment rule’ requires: 100% of that facility amount and 100% of its associated ‘Serviceability Repayment Amount’ to be included in the application (aggregate) level serviceability assessment e.g. if a new loan / loan increase is in a sole name, but an existing facility is held in joint / multiple names, the full amount of the existing facility and its associated ‘Serviceability Repayment Amount’ must be applied against the sole borrower. Where serviceability fails due to the ‘Default shared commitment rule’, the ‘Apportioned shared commitment rule’ may be considered.

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710 56/73

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |New wording Where an existing commitment is shared with another borrower ( i.e. >1 borrower on a loan) the ‘Default shared commitment rule’ requires 100% of that facility amount and 100% of its associated ‘Serviceability Repayment Amount’ to be included in the application (aggregate) level serviceability assessment e.g. if a new loan / loan increase is in a sole name, but an existing facility is held in joint / multiple names, the full amount of the existing facility and its associated ‘Serviceability Repayment Amount’ must be applied against the sole borrower.|
| |Change 9|Update to wording in section 2.5.2 Apportioned shared commitment rule Old wording The ‘Apportioned shared commitment rule’ is an option that can be applied when an existing commitment is shared between a borrower (or income guarantor WBC only), of the new loan application, and a person that is not a borrower on the new loan. Typically, the Apportioned shared commitment rule would be considered when serviceability fails based on the ‘Default shared commitment rule’. Apportioned shared commitment rule is not available: - when the new loan or shared commitment has a company co-borrower - when foreign income is used in the serviceability assessment - when any co-borrower / income guarantor (WBC only) of the shared commitment resides outside of Australia - between spouse only (both spouse residing at the same address and spouse residing at a different address) Where a borrower/s or income guarantor/s (WBC only) share an existing facility with another borrower who is: - not the spouse of the borrower and not a co-borrower on the new loan or loan variation being assessed, and - not an income guarantor (WBC only) on the new loan or loan variation being assessed, then an apportioned ‘Serviceability Repayment Amount’ may be considered in the new loan application serviceability assessment, in lieu of the 100% used under the ‘Default shared commitment rule’. Refer to ‘Serviceability Repayment Amount’ to determine which commitment types are eligible The apportioned Serviceability Repayment Amount’ reflects a percentage, which is the highest of the below categories|
| | |New wording The ‘Apportioned shared commitment rule’ is an option which can be used when serviceability fails based on the ‘Default shared commitment rule’. To be eligible for the apportioned shared commitment rule, the borrower(s) or income guarantor(s) (WBC only) share an existing commitment with another borrower who is not: - The spouse of the borrower and not a co-borrower on the new loan or loan variation being assessed, or - An income guarantor (WBC only) on the new loan or loan variation being assessed|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |In addition to the above, the commitment type must allow an apportioned serviceability repayment amount. To identify if the commitment is eligible to be apportioned, refer to following sections in this chapter: Serviceability Repayment Amount Benchmark Repayment Amount – Mortgage Benchmark Repayment Amount calculation – New and existing internal1 mortgage Benchmark Repayment Amount calculation – external1 existing mortgage|
| | |The applicant’s apportioned share of the commitment used in serviceability assessment is based on the highest of the below categories. (Note: the content contained in the Apportioned repayment categories table has not been changed) Apportioned shared commitment rule is not available when: The new loan or shared commitment has a company co-borrower Foreign income is used in the serviceability assessment Any co-borrower / income guarantor (WBC only) of the shared commitment resides outside of Australia The existing commitment is shared between spouses only (both spouses residing at the same address and both spouses residing at different addresses). If the borrower and non-borrower spouse reside at different addresses, the borrower has to take on the full responsibility for both their own as well as the spouse’s portion of the debt.|
| | |Change 10 Re-named and updated rules in the following sections: Renamed From 2.17.1 DTI calculation to 2.17.1 DTI Ratio Calculation Renamed From 2.17.2 DTI Referral to Credit to as 2.17.2 High DTI Ratio - Commentary and Referral to Credit Old wording 2.17.1 DTI calculation OBP will calculate a ‘Debt To Income' (DTI) ratio and automatically refer applications to Credit where the DTI is greater than or equal to seven (7) times. Measure Definition Debt Total of the higher of limit / balance* of all borrower and Income Reliant Guarantor's new and existing liabilities excluding: Hire purchase, Leasing, Other / Contingent Liabilities Any liabilities being cleared and closed in the submission, whether by customer or loan funds Bridging Loans (applies to new or existing, internal or external, IO or ICAP repayments)|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |Where a debt is being reduced in the submission, whether by customer or loan funds, the New limit is used in lieu of the Current Limit for DTI calculation|
| | |e.g. Debt = $500,000|
| | |Total gross unshaded annual income from borrower/s and income guarantor (WBC only) (Spousal - Income Guarantee or Spousal-Income plus Security Income Guarantee) (including gross rental income and all other income types)|
| | |e.g. Income = $65,000|
| | |Debt ÷ Income|
| | |DTI Ratio Calculation|
| | |e.g. $500,000 (Debt) ÷ $65,000 (Income) = 7.69 DTI ratio|
|2.17.2|DTI Referral to Credit|When the DTI ratio referral rule is displayed, Lenders should provide appropriate notes and comments in their submission to Credit to the effect that: - They have discussed the level of debt to income with the applicant(s) noting the debt level appears relatively high
- They have identified any specific circumstances that are contributing to the high DTI result, such as other income not able to be included in the DTI calculation
- Where any other policy rules have been triggered in addition to DTI, that valid mitigants can be demonstrated
- They have validated the customers’ ability to meet repayments on the proposed loan noting the high DTI ratio
- They have documented any other relevant rationale to support why the deal should still be approved
|
| | |Credit will take the following into consideration when considering applications referred for high DTI: - That the Lender has held detailed conversations with the customer regarding their DTI position, and ability to afford the proposed loan despite the high DTI, and documented this in Notes / Comments accordingly
- Any other policy exceptions or rules triggered
- The LVR, level of monthly surplus, credit history (including anything adverse on their credit bureau) and level of applicant income
- Any specific drivers of high DTI such as other income not able to be included in the DTI calculation
- Any other supporting comments provided by the lender as to the reason for the high DTI and / or rationale as to why the deal should still be approved despite the high DTI
|

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|New wording 2.17.1 DTI Ratio Calculation| |Measure: Definition Total of the higher of limit / balance* of all borrower and Income Reliant Guarantor's new and existing liabilities excluding: - ‘Hire purchase’, ‘Leasing’, ‘Other’ Liabilities
- Any liabilities being cleared and closed in the submission, whether by customer or loan funds
Debt: Bridging Loans (applies to new or existing, internal or external, IO or ICAP repayments) Where a debt is being reduced in the submission, whether by customer or loan funds, the New limit is used in lieu of the Current Limit for DTI calculation e.g. Debt = $500,000 Income: Total gross unshaded annual income from borrower/s and income guarantor (WBC only) (Spousal - Income Guarantee or Spousal-Income plus Security Guarantee) (including gross rental income and all other income types) e.g. Income = $65,000 DTI Ratio Calculation: e.g. $500,000 (Debt) ÷ $65,000 (Income) = 7.69 DTI ratio|
|2.17.2 High DTI Ratio - Commentary and Referral to Credit| |OBP will return a DTI ratio Credit referral rule where: - the DTI ratio is equal to or greater than seven (7) and less than ten (10) and:
- - the LVR is greater than 80%, and/or
- LMI applies
the DTI ratio is equal to or greater than ten (10).
In all instances where the DTI ratio is equal to or greater than seven (7), brokers/assessors must provide appropriate notes and comments in their submission to the effect that: - They have discussed the level of debt to income with the applicant(s) noting the debt level appears relatively high
- They have identified any specific circumstances that are contributing to the high DTI result, such as other income not able to be included in the DTI calculation
|

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |Where any other policy rules have been triggered in addition to DTI, that valid mitigants can be demonstrated. They have validated the customers’ ability to meet repayments on the proposed loan noting the high DTI ratio. They have documented any other relevant rationale to support why the deal should still be approved.|
| | |Where the application triggers a Credit referral, Credit will review the application with consideration applied to: the above comments, the LVR, level of monthly surplus, credit history (including anything adverse on their credit bureau) and level of applicant income, any other policy exceptions or rules triggered.|
|Change 11| |Updated HEM table update - attached HEM tables for Q3 2022|
|Change 12| |Updated table in ‘Amended current commitment’ to include the following content where a document is provided from an external provider to evidence an account has been closed: New wording. Where a document from a facility provider is used to confirm that the liability has been closed, there is no requirement for this document to meet the maximum age of documents requirement for that document, i.e. the document may exceed 2 months.|
|Change 1|24 April 2023|New section added 2.4.1 Apportioned household expenses and shared commitments - Spousal same household. This policy option allows the borrower’s serviceability to be assessed using their share of household living expenses (both HEM comparable and non – HEM comparable expenses) and a share of the repayments for any joint commitments (i.e. debts / liabilities), when: The borrower’s spouse is not an applicant (or an income reliant guarantor - WBC only) for the new loan application being assessed; and The borrower and the borrower’s spouse live at the same address; and The only borrowers on any existing shared commitments are the borrower and the borrower’s spouse. This option cannot be used where: When the existing loan or proposed new loan has a company co-borrower, When borrowers on the existing shared commitment are not spouse only or do not fit the banks definition of a household, When either borrower of the existing or new loan earns foreign income. #Where the borrower is not eligible for this policy, they may meet the requirements for the Apportioned shared commitments rule, refer to that section for further details. Serviceability calculation The portion of the expense or commitment repayment used in the|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |Serviceability assessment will be based on the borrower’s contribution to the total household income i.e. by calculating the borrower’s income as a percentage of total household income (i.e. borrower + spouse income), and applying that same percentage to shared household living expenses and commitments.|
| | |The borrower’s contribution to household income must be evidenced by verifying both the borrower and non-borrower’s (borrower’s spouse) income. The non-borrower (borrower's spouse) must be verified using the following income verification method:|
| | |- PAYG must be verified using standard income verification policy. Refer to Verifying Income policy.|
| | |- Self Employed non-borrower must be verified using Fast Track self-employed assessment. The full Fast Track policy including ‘Eligibility’ and ‘Exclusion’ criteria applies. Refer to Self Employed Applicants policy.|
| | |Notes:|
| | |When the Apportioned household expense and shared commitments - Spousal same household option is applied the HEM band calculation is not apportioned and remains determined based on total household income. The HEM value used in serviceability (determined based on total household income) will be apportioned under this policy option.|
| | |In OBP the following are categorized as expenses:|
| | |- Outgoing rent / board|
| | |- Outgoing child support (maintenance)|
| | |- Outgoing Alimony (spousal support)|
| | |Verification requirements|
| | |When the Apportioned household expense and shared commitments - Spousal same household policy option is applied, the broker must sight the non-borrower spouse privacy and consent, identification, and income verification documents. The broker must upload these documents to the ApplyOnline file and confirm:|
| | |1. The borrower’s spouse resides at the same address as the borrower; and|
| | |2. The name of the borrower’s spouse matches the employee’s name on the income documents used to verify the borrower’s spouse income, including the ATO notice of assessment where the borrower’s spouse is self-employed.|
| | |Related Serviceability assessment policy:|
| | |- Default shared commitment rule|
| | |- Apportioned shared commitment rule|
| | |- Serviceability repayment amount|
| | |- Benchmark repayment amount – Mortgage|
| | |- Benchmark repayment amount calculation – New and existing internal mortgage|
| | |- Benchmark repayment amount calculation – External existing mortgage|
| | |Change 2|
| | |Update to wording in 2.5.2 Apportioned shared commitment rule|
| | |Old wording|
| | |Apportioned shared commitment rule is not available when:|

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |The new loan or shared commitment has a company co-borrower|
| | |Foreign income is used in the serviceability assessment|
| | |Any co-borrower / income guarantor of the shared commitment resides outside of Australia|
| | |The existing commitment is shared between spouses only (both spouses residing at the same address and spouses residing at a different address). If the borrower and non-borrower spouse reside at different addresses, the borrower has to take on the full responsibility for both their own as well as the spouse’s portion of the debt.|

New wording:

Apportioned shared commitment rule is not available when:

- The new loan or shared commitment has a company co-borrower
- Foreign income is used in the serviceability assessment
- Any co-borrower / income guarantor of the shared commitment resides outside of Australia
- The existing commitment is shared between spouses only:
- If the borrower and non-borrower spouse reside at the same address, refer to Apportioned household expenses and shared commitments – Spousal same household policy
- If the borrower and non-borrower spouse reside at different addresses, the borrower has to take on the full responsibility for both their own as well as the spouse’s portion of the debt.

Change 3:

Update to section 2.5.3 Serviceability repayment amount for commitment types > Rental / board expense

New scenario section added to the bottom of the Commitment type table

Scenarios – Outgoing rent or outgoing board:

1. Where the borrower and their spouse (non-borrower on the new loan) rent a property together, then the total contracted rental amount and 100% ownership of the expense must be entered against the borrower. Where Apportioned household expense and shared commitments – Spousal same household policy is being utilised, you will need to include the entire rental outgoing amount as an expense. The system will automatically calculate the borrower’s percentage of the rental outgo to be used in the serviceability. Include notes in the application to describe the scenario clearly for the Assessor.
2. Where the borrower and their spouse (non-borrower on the new loan), rent a property with 1 other person, then the borrower’s and their spouse’s share of the total contracted rent must be entered, e.g. 3 tenants on the lease, then the borrower’s and their spouse’s share of the rent is 66%. This can be entered against the borrower as:
- 66% of the total contracted rental outgo amount and 100% expense ownership, or
- The total contracted rental outgo amount and 66% expense ownership

Where Apportioned household expense and shared commitments - Spousal same household policy has been applied, the system will automatically calculate the borrower’s percentage of the rental outgo shared with their spouse, there is no requirement to manually calculate

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|15|21 May 2023|Change 1 Policy re-write to: re-format and re-wording of policy to improve readability Change 2 New Content added: 2.8.8 Investment Property Expense Floor An investment property expense floor will be used for serviceability for residential properties that earn long term rental income. The investment property costs used for serviceability will be assessed on the higher of: Customer declared investment property costs: OR 10% of Gross Rental Income Investment Property Expense floor does not apply for: Short term rental income Defence Housing Authority (DHA) rental Guarantee NRAS security under a Head Lease structure Commercial properties|

1. The borrower’s share of the rental expense.

3. The borrower and their spouse rent a property and are applying for a new loan in joint names. The total contracted rent may be loaded in full against either borrower, or split between both borrowers, providing the total contracted rental outgo is entered and the combined expense ownership reflects 100%. Apportioned household expense and shared commitments -Spousal same household policy does not apply in this instance as it is a joint borrower application.

4. The borrower rents a property with 2 other people (non-spousal), who are not co-borrowers on the new loan application. It is acceptable to enter the borrower’s share of the total contracted rent based on the number of tenants on the lease, e.g. 3 tenants on the lease, then the borrower’s share of the rent is 33%. This can be entered as: 33% of the total contracted rental outgo amount and 100% expense ownership, or The total contracted rental outgo amount and 33% expense ownership

5. The borrower and co-borrower (non-spousal) on the new loan application rent a property together and are both on the lease. An amount or expense ownership percentage equivalent to 50% of the total contracted rental outgo must be entered against each borrower, i.e. this can be entered as: 50% of the total contracted rental outgo amount and 100% expense ownership against each borrower, or The total contracted rental outgo amount and 50% expense ownership against each borrower

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|16|2 July 2023|Update to Section "Amended Current commitment.": Any liability will be cleared and closed independently by the customer, prior to Unconditional Approval – to allow for cancellation or closed. Update to wording|
|17|20 August 2023|Change 1 Changes to 'Rental income tax deductions for Australian investment properties (Negative Gearing) >': 1. Policy changes: 'For the negatively geared loan: Loan Purpose': New Policy: For both an existing mortgage or the new loan, negative gearing benefits can be included when all or part of a loan is for the purpose of investing in the specific rental property negative gearing is being applied to Old policy: The loan must not be used for other investment purposes (including shares) 'For the negatively geared loan: 'Deductible Loan Amount': New Policy: Only the loan portion used for investing in the specific rental property negative gearing is being applied to can be used. The customer must declare the amount of the loan that is eligible or that is already being negatively geared The deductible amount: may include: the purchase price of the property any associated costs in obtaining the investment property (e.g., stamp duty and legal costs). for a new negatively geared loan must be the lower of: the customer declared deductable loan amount loan limit for an existing negatively geared loan: must be the lower of: the customer declared deductable loan amount loan limit loan balance Old policy: Negative gearing benefits can only be included where the entire loan interest is eligible for the deduction. For a new purchase, the proposed deductible loan amount: may include:|

Change 3 Updated HEM table update - attached HEM tables for Q4 2022

Change 4 Updated section 2.10.1 Serviceability Assessment Rate (SAR) – Mortgage to include a reference and link to modified SAR under Streamlined Refinance as follows: New wording added Note: A modified SAR may be applied to applications to refinance an existing mortgage (internal or external), where the application meets all eligibility criteria and conditions under Streamlined Refinance.

For more information, visit: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |the purchase price of the property|
| | |any associated costs in obtaining the investment property such as stamp duty, legal costs and capitalised lenders mortgage insurance premium|
| | |cannot exceed the actual loan amount|
| | |'For the negatively geared loan: 'Verification':|
| | |New Policy: As per Commitments policy|
| | |Old Policy:|
| | |Where an existing loan balance has been entered in the negative gearing benefit section of OBP, it must be supported by the following:|
| | |Internal Loan1 - The current balance can be confirmed by the printout generated by an internal system.|
| | |External Loan1 - A copy of the most recent loan statement/s (within 2 months of age in line with existing aged document policy) is to be provided.|
|1|For WBC: SGB, BoM, BSA and RAMS are considered to be external providers| |
|1|For SGB, BoM, BSA: WBC and RAMS are considered to be external providers| |
| | |Clarification only changes (no associated policy change):|
| | |added eligibility condition 'Loan Parties for the negatively geared loan: The deduction can only be applied to an applicant who is a borrower on the loan which is being negatively geared'|
| | |reworded eligibility condition 'Residential Real estate that the negative gearing applies to':|
| | |New wording: The property must be owned by an individual (not a partnership, company or trust including an individual as trustee for (ATF))|
| | |Old wording: The property must be owned by an individual (not a company, trust, entity)|
| | |The property must be owned by an individual (not a partnership, company or trust including an individual as trustee for (ATF))|
| | |removed reference to 'OBP'|
| | |general reformatting and rewording to improve clarity|
| | |Update to Study and Training Support Loan (STSL) Repayment Income Thresholds to 2023-2024 values|
| | |Updated HEM table - attached HEM tables for Q1 2023|
| | |Added the below clarification (no policy change) to 'Household Expenditure Measure (HEM) > Rules':|
| | |Applicant's gross income for the HEM band is calculated based on the total:|
| | |Gross annual salary / wages income (unshaded) plus|
| | |Gross annual rental income (unshaded) less the higher of (customer declared investment property costs or 10% of gross unshaded rental income) less investment loan interest costs (where negative gearing has been used) plus|
| | |All other gross annual income (unshaded)|

Change 5

66/73

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|18|8 October 2023|Updated section 2.4.1 Default shared commitment rule and 2.5.2 Apportioned shared commitment rule to remove the requirement to first service using the Default shared commitment rule|
|19|19 November 2023|Updated section 2.10 Consumer Mortgage Loan - Serviceability Repayment Amount:|

Old wording:

|Reference / Acronym|Definition|
|---|---|
|LIR|Loan interest rate|
|Final Rate|Loan interest rate (LIR) +/- life of loan rate adjustments / and loan discounts, and excluding Short term / Honeymoon discounts|
|PI|Principle and interest|
|PIF|Principle, interest and fees|
|IO|Interest Only|
|ICAP|Interest Capitalised|
|SAR|Serviceability Assessment Rate|

New wording:

|Reference / Acronym|Definition|
|---|---|
|LIR|Loan interest rate|

Added the below clarification (no policy change) to ‘Serviceability Repayment Amount > Study and Training Support Loans (STSL) e.g. HELP, SSL, ABSTUDY SSL, TSL, SFSS, HECS > Benchmark Repayment Amount calculation’:

- ‘Repayment Income’ used for this calculation is:

For more information, visit: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|Final Rate (New loans)| |Includes any life of loan rate adjustments / and loan or discounts, and excluding short term or honeymoon rates / discounts|
|Current Rate (Existing loans)| |Any life of loan rate adjustments or discounts, or Fixed / short term / honeymoon rates or discounts|
|Adjusted Current Rate| |The higher of the Verified Current Rate, or Minimum Current Rate|

P&I - Principle and interest

PIF - Principle, interest and fees

IO - Interest Only

ICAP - Interest Capitalised

SAR - Serviceability Assessment Rate

# Change 2

Updated section 2.10.1 Serviceability Assessment Rate (SAR) – Mortgage to simplify wording, add Minimum Current Rate and remove example table

Old wording:

Interest Rate Policy Rules

The buffer rate is determined by the Bank; it reflects the potential for interest rate increases and seeks to ensure that potential increases in interest rates do not adversely impact on a borrower’s capacity to repay a loan.

Buffer rate: Effective 29 October 2021 the buffer rate is 3.00% p.a.

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |The Bank maintains a minimum floor rate which is used in conjunction with the buffer rate. The floor rate is the lowest benchmark rate that the Bank has set for testing a customer’s ability to repay the loan.|
| |Floor Rate|Note: The floor rate is also internally referred to as the 'Minimum Credit Assessment Rate (MCAR)'|
| |Effective 9 October 2020|The floor rate is 5.05% p.a.|
| |Serviceability Assessment Rate (SAR)|The SAR refers to the interest rate which is applied in the Benchmark Repayment Amount calculation. If the final rate on the loan plus the interest rate buffer of 3.00% p.a. is less than the floor rate, then the floor rate is applied as the SAR. If the final rate on the loan plus the interest rate buffer of 3.00% p.a. is greater than the floor rate, then the actual rate on the loan plus the interest rate buffer is applied as the SAR.|
| | |Note: A modified SAR may be applied to applications to refinance an existing mortgage (internal or external), where the application meets all eligibility criteria and conditions under Streamlined Refinance.|
| |Interest Rate Buffer|The interest rate buffer is determined by the Bank; it reflects the potential for interest rate increases and seeks to ensure that potential increases in interest rates do not adversely impact on a borrower’s capacity to repay a consumer mortgage loan. Effective 29 October 2021 the buffer rate is 3.00% p.a.|
| |Floor Rate|Note: The floor rate is also internally referred to as the 'Minimum Credit Assessment Rate'. The Bank maintains a minimum floor rate which is used in conjunction with the interest rate buffer. The floor rate is the lowest benchmark rate that the Bank has set for testing a customer’s ability to repay the consumer mortgage loan.|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|(MCAR)| |Effective 9 October 2020 the floor rate is 5.05% p.a.|
|Minimum Current Rate| |Minimum Current Rate is determined by the Bank to reflect the minimum LIR that must be applied in the serviceability assessment, to an existing (internal or external) consumer mortgage loan. If the Current Rate is below this, then the Minimum Current Rate will automatically apply.|
|Serviceability Assessment Rate (SAR)| |SAR refers to the interest rate which is applied in the Benchmark Repayment Amount calculation|
| |For new (internal) consumer mortgage loans, SAR is the higher of the: Final Rate plus Interest Rate Buffer, OR Floor Rate|For existing (internal or external) consumer mortgage loans, SAR is the higher of the: Adjusted Current Rate plus Interest Rate Buffer, OR Floor Rate|
| |Examples:|If the Final Rate or Adjusted Current Rate on the loan plus the interest rate buffer of 3.00% p.a. is less than the Floor Rate, then the Floor Rate is applied as the SAR. If the Final Rate or Adjusted Current Rate on the loan plus the interest rate buffer of 3.00% p.a. is greater than the Floor Rate, then the Final Rate or Adjusted Current Rate on the loan plus the interest rate buffer is applied as the SAR|
| |Note:|A modified SAR may be applied to applications to refinance an existing mortgage (internal or external), where the application meets all eligibility criteria and conditions under Streamlined Refinance.|
|Change 3|Updated section 2.10.2 Benchmark Repayment Amount – New Mortgage(s)|From Benchmark Repayment Amount calculation – New and existing internal mortgage To Benchmark Repayment Amount calculation – New (internal) mortgage|

Source: Link

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|20|18 February 2024|Change 3 Updated section 2.5.3 'Serviceability Repayment Amount' to: - Remove note re notional rent exclusion.
- Simplify wording by removing unnecessary content and to provide clear instructions.
Updated section 2.6 'Notional rent expense' to: - Simplify wording by removing unnecessary content and to provide clear instructions.
- Remove the rule that 'Notional rent WILL NOT apply' for scenarios where the applicant lives with in an owner-occupied property that is solely owned by their non-applicant spouse.
- Combine borrower types of Individual and joint with non-applicant spouse within the table given the same rules apply.
|
|21|7 April 2024|Change 1 Uplift in rental income tax deductions for Construction loans (internal) with progress payments Change 2 Under section 'Parental leave - use of return to work income' reworded|

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |'Exclusions' section (no associated policy change) From: Any other extended leave like Grandparental Leave or Career Breaks are ineligible as this isn't covered under Government Legislation like Parental Leave where a person is guaranteed for their job to be held open for 12 months. To: Any other extended leave like Grandparental Leave or Career Breaks are ineligible|
|22|19 May 2024|Change 1 Updated HEM table – attached HEM tables for Q4 2023. Change 2 Changed the name of 2.10 Consumer Mortgage Loan – Serviceability Repayment Amount to Mortgages L – Serviceability Repayment Amount Added the following commitments: Business Commercial Bill Business Credit Card Business Inter-entity loan Business Overdraft Business Tax Debt Business Term Loan Secured Line of Credit (without a contracted term) Deleted the following commitments: Line of Credit (unsecured) Updated the following commitments: Changed Cards to Cards (personal) Consumer mortgage loans changed to Mortgages Overdraft changed the name to Overdraft – personal Other loans deleted “note this relates specifically to the OBP liability type Other” and added “May include Flexi Loans (WBC Product), Get Set loans (SGB / BoM / BSA Product) Tax debt changed the name to “Tax Debt – Personal”|
|23|30 June 2024|Change 1 Update to Parental Leave requirements when Mortgage Insurance is required - Removed Must be referred to Credit and will be considered on a case-by-case basis, to a maximum LVR of 90% inclusive of any capped premium.|

# Attachments

- 03.17 HEM Remote Postcodes.xlsx
- 03.17 HEM Table.xlsx

Comment on this policy

Comment on this policy

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710 72/73

Rate this policy

Published 30/06/2024

Date

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000710 73/73