7/4/24, 11:02 AM                                                            WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Home            View Westpac Consumer Mortgages OBP Credit Policies

Contact Us

# 03.12 Living Expenses

This policy contains commercially sensitive and confidential information. No part should be made
available in any form whether printed, electronic or otherwise, outside the Westpac Group without
approval from Westpac Legal or Regulatory affairs.*** This document is an UNCONTROLLED copy
and is subject to change without prior notification. It is only valid at the date of extract. ***

# Table of Contents

- 1. About this policy
- 1.1 Why this policy
- 2. Rules you must apply
- 2.1 Capturing customer declared living expenses
- 2.1.1 Bridging Loans
- 2.2 Reducing living expenses
- 2.3 Conflicting information
- 2.4 Living expenses compared to HEM
- 2.5 Living expenses not compared to HEM
- 2.6 Factors affecting HEM / living expenses
- 2.7 Apportioning declared living expenses in loan application
- 2.8 Definition of a dependant
- 2.9 Rental expenses from a property rented on a short term basis

# About this policy

1.1 Why this policy

Living expenses materially affect the ability of a residential mortgage
borrower to meet repayments due on a loan and are a key component of a
serviceability assessment.

The declared living expenses are used by the Bank as part of the unsuitability
assessment as required under our Responsible Lending obligations.

This policy identifies the standards for:

- enquiring about and capturing living expense information for each
borrower and income guarantor that is contractually bound to repay the
loan

Applicable to Consumer mortgage applications where a borrower is seeking any of:

Link to more information

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Policy exclusion:

This policy does not apply to a Bridging ICAP loan with no end debt.

Reading this policy:

Unless specifically stipulated otherwise, the content applies to both non-mortgage insured (non-MI) and mortgage insured (MI) consumer mortgage loan applications.

You may also need to refer to other lending policy rules, including but not limited to:

- Commitments
- Guarantees
- Serviceability assessment
- Validation of information provided by the customer

If the application requires mortgage insurance, where required refer to:

- Lenders Mortgage Insurance

# Rules you must apply

# 2.1 Capturing customer declared living expenses

It is critical that an appropriate level of enquiry is made, to ensure that an accurate view of the declared household living expenses are captured.

Refer to Glossary for definition of a ‘household’.

Living expenses must be captured and entered according to the set expense category. It is not acceptable to 'bundle' across expense categories.

Borrowers and income guarantors are required to declare all ongoing household living expenses that:

- are in place as at time of the application, and
- will be in place after settlement of their loan

Brokers are to assist by providing a description of each expense category to ensure the declared responses clearly align to our requirements. Refer to Expense category tables in Living Expenses compared to HEM and Living Expenses not compared to HEM.

Brokers cannot suggest a value on the applicant's behalf, except when rental income used in the serviceability assessment is rental income (in AUD) from a property rented on a short term basis.

Refer to:

- Rental expenses from a property rented on a short term basis
- Verifying Income > Supplementary income > Rental income (in AUD) Rent received on a short term basis

# 2.1.1 Bridging Loans

Bridging ICAP loan with no end debt: Refer to Policy exclusions.

Bridging loan with an end debt: Property costs associated with the property being sold are

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

not required

# 2.2 Reducing living expenses

We acknowledge that a customer may change their spending behaviour when they have a new mortgage repayment obligation or following a change in circumstances (e.g. children moving out of parent's house).

We accept that such a change often involves a reduction in discretionary (non-essential) expenses such as recreation, entertainment, clothing, personal care and groceries. It is less likely that a customer can easily reduce expenses that are more stable by nature such as insurances, property-related costs, utilities, education and telephone. Refer to Expense category tables in Living Expenses compared to HEM and Living Expenses not compared to HEM to identify discretionary v’s non-discretionary expense types.

Where the customer has told us that they are prepared to reasonably change their lifestyle to reduce living expenses, we may adjust customer declared expense amounts in the loan assessment system provided:

- Broker has had a robust discussion with customer around their living expenses patterns; and
- The reduction appears reasonable; and
- Overall comments are recorded in ApplyOnline detailing:
- the customer discussion
- what expenses have been adjusted and by how much
- the reasons why the reductions were deemed acceptable by the Broker.

The customer declared amount cannot be accepted for any outgoing child support, alimony or rent (post settlement). The amount of the payment must be verified, for further information refer to Commitments policy

# 2.3 Conflicting information

After the declared living expenses have been captured, we may need to make further enquiries if:

- During the assessment of the application we identify information which conflicts with the declared expenses as per Loan Application and Approval > Validation of information provided by the customer policy
- OBP referral rule 'Customer Declared Expenses being < 70% of HEM’ has been triggered.

# 2.4 Living expenses compared to HEM

These living expense categories will be compared to the HEM value; and

- The higher of the declared expenses or HEM will be used in the serviceability calculation
- Are used to calculate the expense to net [discounted] HEM ratio at application level. This is used to assist in:
- Understanding the level of expenses; and
- Identifying where they are materially different (higher or lower) to the Household Expenditure Measure. Refer Serviceability assessment for HEM values.

Applications where the declared living expenses are assessed as materially low in relation to their income and insufficient to maintain a reasonable standard of living will require further detailed commentary and mitigation before approval can be considered.

Brokers must comply with the 'Commentary required' rules detailed in the table:

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000700

|Expense Category|Description|Commentary required?|Non-discretionary expense?|
|---|---|---|---|
|Clothing and Personal Care (including footwear, cosmetics, etc.)|Clothing, footwear, cosmetics, personal care|Yes, when the expense is $0|No|
|Groceries|Typical supermarket shop for groceries including food and toiletries|Yes, when the expense is $0|No|
|Medical and Health (Excluding Health Insurance)|Medical and health costs including doctor, dental, optical and pharmaceutical etc. (excluding health insurance which is categorised under 'Insurance (Life, Health, Sickness and Personal Accident)')|Yes, when the expense is $0|No|
|Childcare (including nannies and day care)|Childcare including nannies Note: Child Care costs to be entered net of the Child Care Subsidy|Yes, when the expense is $0 and the borrower has declared a dependant under the age of 6 years (i.e. 5 years old or younger)|Yes|
|Public or Government Primary & Secondary Education Costs|Education fees, books, uniforms and associated costs for public schooling (preschool, primary or secondary)|Yes, when expense is $0 and the borrower has declared a dependant between the ages of 5-18 years and Private schooling & Tuition expense category is 0 and no comment provided|Yes|
|Higher Education & Vocational Training Costs (excluding Study & Training Support Loans - STSL)|Fees, accommodation, books and associated costs for higher education (tertiary) and vocational training e.g. university, TAFE, business college, drama, music, dance (excluding STSL / HECS)|Yes, when the expense is $0|Yes|

For Study and training

Link to original document

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Insurance|(Excluding Life, Health, Sickness and Personal Accident)|Yes, when the expense is $0|No|
|---|---|---|---|
|Insurance|Insurance costs such as personal belongings, travel and ambulance insurance, as well as any compulsory insurance of motor vehicles (combined insurance and registration) other than recreation vehicles. Excludes property related insurance costs (building, contents etc) as well as life, health, sickness and personal accident insurance.| | |
|Telephone, internet, pay TV and media streaming subscriptions| |Yes, when the expense is $0|No|
|Telephone, internet, pay TV and media streaming subscriptions|Telephone accounts (home and mobile), internet, pay TV and media streaming subscriptions| | |
|Transport|(including public transport, car usage, parking, tolls etc.)|Yes, when the expense is $0|No|
|Transport|Public transport and motor vehicle running costs including fuel, servicing, parking and tolls (excluding motor vehicle insurance which is categorized under insurance).| | |
|Recreation and Entertainment| |Yes, when the expense is $0|No|
|Recreation and Entertainment|Recreation and entertainment including alcohol, tobacco, gambling, restaurants, membership fees, loan account fees not covered by another specific category (excludes Short Term Buy Now Pay Later facilities), pet care, domestic holidays| | |

For support loans (STSL) rules, refer to: Commitments > Confirm the details of the commitment > Other liability types Serviceability Assessment > Serviceability Repayment Amount

Note: Where there is a salary sacrifice arrangement, the vehicle running expenses are to be included in the declared expenses

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000700

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Expense Category|Description|Commentary required?|Non-discretionary expense?|Additional conditions|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|Owner Occupied Primary Residence|Land Tax, Body Corp & Strata Fees|Yes, when the expense is $0 and the borrower has an existing owner occupied property and/or is purchasing or obtaining ownership of an owner occupied property as part of the application|Yes|

Primary Residence Costs (Including Insurance)

Housing and property expenses associated with the borrower’s primary residence, either owned or rented. Includes rates, levies, repairs and maintenance, insurance (building, contents etc), loan account fees (new and existing), all other utilities and other household costs for fixtures and fittings (excluding land tax, body corporate and strata fees, telephone, internet and pay TV).

2.5 Living expenses not compared to HEM

These expense categories will not be compared to the HEM value, will be totaled and added as an outgo in ApplyOnline, except for Investment Property costs (Including Insurance) - Refer to 'Additional conditions’ for this category.

For Bridging loans with an end debt, refer to Bridging Loan.

Brokers must comply with ’Commentary required’ and ‘Additional conditions’ rules detailed in the table.

Secondary Residence / Holiday Home Costs (Including Insurance)

|Costs associated with any secondary residences, either rented or owned for non-investment purposes, such as:|Yes, when the expense is $0 and the borrower:|Yes|
|---|---|---|
|a holiday property that is not rented to generate income, a property that family members (parents or children) are allowed to live in rent-free, vacant land|has an existing owner-occupied Secondary Residence and/or is purchasing or obtaining ownership of an owner-occupied Secondary Residence as part of the application| |
|Includes rates, taxes, levies, body corporate and strata fees, repairs and maintenance, insurance (building, contents etc), associated loan account fees (new and existing), all other utilities and other household costs for fixtures and fittings| | |

Note: Where a property does not receive rental income, or rental income is not relied on and not verified, or involves a scenario where negative gearing is excluded under policy (refer Serviceability Assessment > Rental income tax deductions for Australian investment properties (Negative Gearing) then:

- the property should be loaded in ApplyOnline and the associated Living Expenses are to be captured under 'Secondary Residence / Holiday Home Costs'

Link to original document

|Insurance|Private Schooling & Tuition Costs|Other regular or recurring expenses|Child Support / Alimony|
|---|---|---|---|
|Life, Health, Sickness and Personal Accident insurance, life insurance (paid for by the customer outside of superannuation)|Tuition fees, school fees, sports fees, books, uniforms and associated costs for private schooling, including independent schools (Catholic or non-Catholic), private tuition (such as Kumon and Kip McGrath) and compulsory age kindergarten / reception / pre-primary / prep|Any other regular or recurring expenses not covered by specific categories in this ‘Living Expense not compared to HEM’ table; or ‘Living expenses compared to HEM’ table. E.g.: after tax or post tax superannuation deductions from salary / wage, overseas holidays, purchase, insurance and maintenance of recreation vehicles (caravan, boat etc), cleaning or gardening services, etc.|Outgoing child support (maintenance)|
|Yes, when the expense is $0|Yes, when the expense is $0 and the borrower: has declared a dependant between the ages of 5-18 years and Public or Government Education expense category is 0 and no comment provided|No|Verification required - refer to https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000700|
|Yes| |No categorisation may result in a higher living expense figure being used in the serviceability assessment.| |

Outgoing alimony (spousal support)

The amount of any outgoing child support and/or alimony payment must be verified.

Verification requirements are detailed in Commitments policy &gt; Confirm details of the commitment.

|Rent / Board (post settlement)|Verification required|
|---|---|
|The amount of any outgoing rent (post settlement) payment must be verified.|Yes, when system indicates borrower will be Renting / Boarding post settlement and the amount declared is &lt; $650|

|Investment Property Costs (Including Insurance)|Verification required|
|---|---|
|Housing and property expenses on investment property including rates, taxes, levies, body corporate and strata fees, repairs and maintenance, insurance (building, contents etc), loan account fees (new and existing), all other utilities and household costs for fixtures and fittings|Yes, when the expense is $0 and the borrower: has an existing investment property and/or is purchasing or obtaining ownership of an investment property as part of the application|

Note: Where the same property is an investment property for one borrower but an owner-occupied property for another

Note: When the applicant and non-applicant are spouse residing at the same address, Apportioned

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Under policy (refer Serviceability Assessment &gt; Rental income tax deductions for Australian investment properties (Negative Gearing) then:

- The property should be loaded in ApplyOnline; and
- The associated Living Expenses are to be captured under 'Secondary Residence / Holiday Home Costs (including Insurance)’.

Where the loan application has been assessed as Self-employed, rental income and expenses must be captured and assessed as per Self-employed Customers policy.

# 2.6 Factors affecting HEM / living expenses

Other factors which may impact living expenses are:

- Post settlement postcode
- Where an In Principle Approval application is submitted, the post settlement postcode is to be captured as accurately as possible.
- The application must reflect the actual post settlement postcode for formal approval.
- Number of dependants - refer to Definition of a Dependant

It is mandatory to capture these details within the loan assessment system.

# 2.7 Apportioning declared living expenses in loan application

The table below details whether household living expenses can be apportioned, according to how the spouse is associated with the loan application:

|Application Type|Apportioning Rules|Additional information|
|---|---|---|
|Spouse is also a borrower|Apportioning the household living expenses against these parties is not restricted|Restriction applies to apportioning 'Investment Property Costs (Including Insurance)’.|
|Spousal - Security Guarantee|Refer to Serviceability Assessment &gt; Apportioned household expenses and shared commitments - Spousal same|Refer to Investment Property Costs (Including Insurance) &gt;|

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Spouse is not a borrower or guarantor

2.14 Definition of a Dependant

A dependant is defined as:

- a child under the age of 18 years; or
- a child aged 18 years or older who lives with the applicant, receives no income from government benefits, employment or other income sources, and is totally financially reliant on the applicant (e.g. A full time unemployed student, or a child with a disability living at home permanently)

where the applicant has legal responsibility for the care and welfare of the child, on either a full or part time basis. Note: The child under the age of 18 years may or may not reside with the applicant.

Unborn children are not considered dependants. Variance to this rule where Serviceability Assessment &gt; Parental leave – use of ‘return to work’ income’ policy is applied.

Any additional expenses for children over the age of 18 living at home need to be captured in the living expenses discussion with the customer.

If applicants are expecting to add to their family, this should be identified during completion of Responsible Lending requirements by way of question: Do you expect any significant changes to your financial situation over the next 3 years that would adversely impact your ability to meet your repayments? Refer to Serviceability Assessment

Where the child does not reside with the applicant it is acceptable to use an outgoing child support payment in place of including the child as a dependant for serviceability purposes. If no child support is paid or child support is paid and the child resides with the applicant the child must be included as a dependant for serviceability purposes. Any shared custody arrangements should be clearly explained in the application

The amount of any outgoing child support payment must be verified for further information refer to Commitments policy

2.15 Rental expenses from a property rented on a short term basis

When rental income used in the serviceability assessment is rental income (in AUD) From a property rented on a short term basis and this property was rented for the full 52 weeks of the year. The expenses declared on the rental schedule other that interest, depreciation and once off capital expenses must be used. Refer to Verifying Income &gt; Supplementary income &gt; Rental income (in AUD) Rent received on a short term basis

Where the short-term rental property has not been rented for the full 52 weeks of the year, expenses incurred when the property is not rented are to be entered into customer expenses either as an owner occupied primary or owner-occupied secondary expenses. The lender should discuss with the customer to determine whether the property is owner occupied primary or owner occupied secondary and document accordingly.

If the property is owner-occupied and has a separate area of occupancy (granny flat) being used for short term rent, the owner-occupied portion of expenses is to be separated from the investment portion. Like above, the investment portion can be determined from the rental schedule in the tax return and the owner-occupied portion can be determined through a customer conversation.

Change History

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000700

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|1|3 November 2021|First OBP issue online for Brokers on the OKA platform.|
|2|8 November 2021|Links updated|
|3|21 November 2021|No commentary required (System has been updated and a comment of N/A is no longer necessary to allow the application to be progressed. Field can be blank) Addition to content in section 2.12 Expense Category table > Expense Category ‘Other’ Description column: after tax or post tax superannuation deductions from salary / wage. This information has been included in line with the update to Verifying Income policy to reference ‘after tax or post tax’ deductions on a payslip.|
|4|20 February 2022|Change 1: Updated section ‘Capturing living expenses - Guarantors / Guarantee’ to specify that for ‘Shared Equity Guarantee’ type, the guarantor’s expenses do not need to be captured as they are non-spousal guarantors and their income is not used for serviceability. Change 2: Section 2.3 Capturing customer declared living expenses – applicant. Updated content relating to Validation of information provided by the customer policy to show renamed sub-chapters. If Lender assist tool cannot be used, refer to Validation of information provided by the customer policy: Validation of information, Document review – what to look for.|
|5|22 May 2022|Change 1: Updated section ‘Capturing living expenses - Guarantors / Guarantee’ to specify that for ‘Shared Equity Guarantee’ type, the guarantor’s expenses do not need to be captured as they are non-spousal guarantors and their income is not used for serviceability. Change 2: Section 2.3 Capturing customer declared living expenses – applicant. Updated content relating to Validation of information provided by the customer policy to show renamed sub-chapters. If Lender assist tool cannot be used, refer to Validation of information provided by the customer policy: Validation of information, Document review – what to look for.|

For more information, visit: WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|6|17 July 2022|New content added to section 2.12 Expense Category Table Items marked with ^ are non-discretionary expense categories|
|6|17 July 2022|Update to section 2.15 Definition of a Dependant Old Unborn children are not considered dependants.|
|7|2 October 2022|Change 1 In the “Capturing customer declared living expenses – applicant” section under “Brokers cannot suggest a value on the applicant's behalf, except:” the following new dot points have been added When rental income used in the serviceability assessment is rental income (in AUD) from a property rented on a short term basis. If rental expenses relate to a property rented on a short term basis refer to: Rental expenses from a property rented on a short term basis. Refer to Verifying Income > Supplementary income > Rental income (in AUD) Rent received on a short term basis Added the following new section 2.16 Rental expenses from a property rented on a short term basis When rental income used in the serviceability assessment is rental income (in AUD) From a property rented on a short term basis and this property was rented for the full 52 weeks of the year. The expenses declared on the rental schedule other that interest, depreciation and once off capital expenses must be used. Refer to Verifying Income > Supplementary income > Rental income (in AUD) Rent received on a short term basis|

Change 3 Change to content in section 2.6 Conflicting information New After the customer’s declared living expenses have been captured, we may need to make further enquiries with the applicant if: during the assessment of the application we identify information which conflicts with the customer declared non-discretionary expenses. The conflict may be identified using data from Lender Assist where applicable) or other supporting documents provided by the applicant(s). Refer to and follow the requirements as per Validation of information provided by the customer policy > Document review – what to look for (table) > Any inconsistencies or omissions in customer declared expenses where the expense type is non-discretionary

Change 4 New content added to section 2.12 Expense Category Table Items marked with ^ are non-discretionary expense categories

Update to section 2.15 Definition of a Dependant Old Unborn children are not considered dependants. New Unborn children are not considered dependants. Variance to this rule where Serviceability Assessment > Parental leave – use of ‘return to work’ income’ policy is applied.

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |Where the short-term rental property has not been rented for the full 52 weeks of the year, expenses incurred when the property is not rented are to be entered into customer expenses either as an owner occupied primary or owner-occupied secondary expenses. The lender should discuss with the customer to determine whether the property is owner occupied primary or owner occupied secondary and document accordingly. If the property is owner-occupied and has a separate area of occupancy (granny flat) being used for short term rent, the owner-occupied portion of expenses is to be separated from the investment portion. Like above, the investment portion can be determined from the rental schedule in the tax return and the owner-occupied portion can be determined through a customer conversation.|
|8|20 November 2022|Change 1: Content moved section 2.3 Capturing customer declared living expenses – applicant. Old wording: Brokers cannot suggest a value on the applicant's behalf, except when rental income used in the serviceability assessment is rental income (in AUD) from a property rented on a short term basis. Refer to Verifying Income > Supplementary income > Rental income (in AUD) Rent received on a short term basis. New wording: When rental income used in the serviceability assessment is rental income (in AUD) from a property rented on a short term basis. Refer to: Rental expenses from a property rented on a short term basis, and Verifying Income > Supplementary income > Rental income (in AUD) Rent received on a short term basis.|
| | |Change 2: Content added to 2.5 Reducing living expenses. Old wording: We accept that such a change often involves a reduction in discretionary (non-essential) expenses such as recreation, entertainment, clothing, personal care and groceries. It is less likely that a customer can easily reduce expenses that are more stable by nature such as insurances, property-related costs, utilities, education and telephone. New wording: We accept that such a change often involves a reduction in|

Link: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000700

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |discretionary (non-essential) expenses such as recreation, entertainment, clothing, personal care and groceries. It is less likely that a customer can easily reduce expenses that are more stable by nature such as insurances, property-related costs, utilities, education and telephone. Refer to Expense category table to identify discretionary v’s non-discretionary expense types.|
| | |The customer declared amount cannot be accepted for any outgoing child support, alimony, rent / board (post settlement). The amount of the payment must be verified, for further information refer to Commitments policy|
|Change 3| |New content added to Section 2.12 Expense Category Table|
| | |Expense category > Child Support / Alimony > Column ‘Description’|
| | |Old wording Outgoing child support Outgoing alimony (spousal support) New wording Outgoing child support (maintenance) Outgoing alimony (spousal support) The amount of any outgoing child support and / or alimony payment must be verified. Verification requirements are detailed in Commitments policy > Confirm details of the commitment.|
| | |Expense category > Higher Education & Vocational Training Costs (excluding Study & Training Support Loans – STSL) > column ‘Description’|
| | |Old wording Fees, accommodation, books and associated costs for higher education (tertiary) and vocational training e.g. university, TAFE, business college, drama, music, dance (excluding STSL / HECS) New wording Fees, accommodation, books and associated costs for higher education (tertiary) and vocational training e.g. university, TAFE, business college, drama, music, dance (excluding STSL / HECS)|
| | |For Study and training support loans (STSL) rules, refer to: Commitments > Confirm the details of the commitment > Other liability types Serviceability Assessment > Serviceability Repayment Amount|
| | |Expense category > Rent / Board (post settlement) > Column ‘Description Old wording Rental expense that will be paid post settlement of the loan New wording|

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |The amount of any outgoing rent or board (post settlement) payment must be verified. Verification requirements are detailed in Commitments policy > Confirm details of the commitment.|
| | |Additional wording included below table: 1 These non-discretionary expenses are required to be verified. Verification requirements are detailed in Commitments policy > Confirm details of the commitment|
| | |Change 4 Wording update in section 2.13.1 Apportioning ‘Investment Property Costs (including insurance)’ Old wording The applicant's exact expenses across all investment properties in which they have an ownership must be captured. For example: A husband and wife applying in joint names own an investment property 60 / 40 and the total property expense is $1,000, they would need to declare $600 and $400 respectively as their individual Investment Property costs. An applicant applying in their sole name owns an investment property 50 / 50 with a non-applicant, where the total property expense is $1,000 and the owners also share the expenses 50 / 50, the applicant would need to declare $500 as their individual Investment Property costs. Note: When the applicant and non-applicant are spouse residing at the same address, apportioned household expense option may apply. Refer to Serviceability Assessment > Apportioned household expenses New wording Investment Property Costs (Including Insurance) are offset against rental income Investment Property Costs (Including Insurance) must be captured as per each applicant's exact expenses across all investment properties in which they have an ownership. For example: A husband and wife applying in joint names own an investment property 60 / 40 and the total property expense is $1,000, they would need to declare $600 and $400 respectively as their individual Investment Property costs. An applicant applying in their sole name owns an investment property 50 / 50 with a non-applicant, where the total property expense is $1,000 and the owners also share the expenses 50 / 50, the applicant would need to declare $500 as their individual Investment Property costs. Note: When the applicant and non-applicant are spouse residing at the same address, apportioned household expense option may apply. Refer to|

Link to more information

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|Change 5|24 April 2023|Content has been deleted, impacted section 2.14 Verifying outgoing child support, alimony, rent or board (post settlement) Deleted The amount of any outgoing child support, alimony, rent or board (post settlement) payment must be verified. Verification requirements are detailed in Commitments policy > Confirm details of the commitment. (The above deleted content can now be found in section 2.12 Expense Category Table) As a result of the deleted of this section, the remaining sections have been renumbered.|
|Change 6|24 April 2023|Content has been deleted, impacted section 3.1 Expense categories – Investment Property Costs (including insurance) Deleted Investment Property Costs (Including Insurance) are offset against rental income Investment Property Costs (Including Insurance) must be captured as each applicant's exact expenses across all investment properties in which they have an ownership. For example: - A husband and wife applying in joint names own an investment property 60 / 40 and the total property expense is $1,000, they would need to declare $600 and $400 respectively as their individual Investment Property costs.
- An applicant applying in their sole name owns an investment property 50 / 50 with a non-applicant, where the total property expense is $1,000 and the owners also share the expenses 50 / 50, the applicant would need to declare $500 as their individual Investment Property costs. Note: When the applicant and non-applicant are spouse residing at the same address, Apportioned household expense option may apply. Refer to Serviceability Assessment > Apportioned household expenses.
(the section was primarily a duplication of 2.13.1 Apportioning ‘investment property costs (including insurance)'|
|9|24 April 2023|Change references throughout policy from ‘Apportioned household expenses’ to ‘Apportioned household expenses and shared commitments – Spousal same household|

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|10|21 May 2023|Change 1 Policy re-write to re-format and re-wording of policy to improve readability Change 2 Throughout document, redirected references and links from 'Validation of information provided by the customer' policy chapter to 'Loan Application and Approval > Validation of information provided by the customer'. Housekeeping change only Change 3 Under section 'Conflicting information' policy changed: Old wording After the customer's declared living expenses have been captured, we may need to make further enquiries with the applicant if: - During the assessment of the application we identify information which conflicts with the customer declared non-discretionary expenses. The conflict may be identified using data from Lender Assist where applicable or other supporting documents provided by the applicant(s). Refer to and follow the requirements as per Validation of information provided by the customer policy > Document review – what to look for (table) > Any inconsistencies or omissions in customer declared expenses where the expense type is non-discretionary; or
New wording After the declared living expenses have been captured, we may need to make further enquiries if : - During the assessment of the application we identify information which conflicts with the declared expenses as per Loan Application and Approval > Validation of information provided by the customer policy
|
|11|19 November 2023|Change 1 Updated references to the Self-employed Applicants policy changing to "Self-employed Customers"|
|12|18 February 2024|Change 1 Updated section 'Why this policy:' From: Applicable to a servicing / variation activity requiring a serviceability assessment. To: Applicable to a loan variation activity requiring a serviceability assessment. Change 2 Removed requirement for board to be verified from sections:|

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000700

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|13|7 April 2024|2.2 ‘Reducing living expenses’|
| | |2.6 ‘Living expenses not compared to HEM’|
| | |Change 1 Included section 2.1.1 Bridging loans: Specifying that for Bridging Loans with no end debt, property costs associated with the property being sold are not required Linking to the existing ‘policy exclusion’ section for Bridging ICAP loans with no end debt (no associated policy change)|

Comment on this policy

Rate this policy

Published 07/04/2024

Date

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000700 19/19