WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Home | View Westpac Consumer Mortgages OBP Credit Policies | Contact Us

03.16 Self-Employed Customers

This policy contains commercially sensitive and confidential information. No part should be made available in any form whether printed, electronic or otherwise, outside the Westpac Group without approval from Westpac Legal or Regulatory affairs.*** This document is an UNCONTROLLED copy and is subject to change without prior notification. It is only valid at the date of extract. ***

Table of Contents

1. About this policy
2. 1. Why this policy

Rules you must apply
3. 1. Identifying self-employed customers
2. Unacceptable self-employed income
3. Self-employed entity has been verified as making a loss
4. Self-employed assessment methods
5. - Fast Track
- Latest year and 2 year average
- Assessing tax returns and financials
- Simple Solvency Check (SSC) assessment
- Adjustments / Addbacks and Subtractions
- Rental income – Latest year and 2 year average methods

Customer relationship to the entity
6. Exceptions to providing 2 years tax returns / financials

About this policy

Link to the original document

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Rules you must apply
This policy must be used for all new loan applications and any existing loan being assessed for a loan variation (where a serviceability assessment is required).
The One Bank Platform (OBP) system and or pe Broker Serviceability Calculator are pe only self-employed income assessment calculator’s / serviceability assessment tools pat can be used in conjunction wip pis policy (e.g. not available for loans assessed via GOE or clas)
All supporting documents must be wipin age of documents policy and uploaded to ApplyOnline wip Tax file numbers redacted from any document provided to pe bank.

Identifying self-employed customers.
Where pe customer is associated wip an entity (i.e. has an ABN for an entity) and is not being assessed under Fast Track, Brokers / Assessors are required to verify how pe customer is related to pe entity, to identify if pe customer meets pe banks definition of self-employed.
To assist wip identifying if a customer is self-employed, review pe Credit Bureau report for any related directorships.
When pe customer meets pe banks definition of self-employed (below) and is not being assessed under Fast Track, profitability of pe entity must be confirmed, even where income from pe entity is not being used in pe serviceability assessment.

|Definition of self-employed|Verification documents required|Where assessed using:|
|---|---|---|
|Customer relationship to the entity| | |
|Entity type|Is the sole trader|An ABN search must be completed for all entities to confirm:|
| | |The entity type|
| | |The ABN status (e.g. active, cancelled)|
| | |How long the ABN has been registered.|
| |Partnership|Same as Fast Track|
| | |Same as Fast Track|
| |Trust|Same as Fast Track,|
| | |And|
| | |Confirmation that the customer is a current trustee and beneficiary, via:|
| | |Trust deed, or|
| | |Trust tax return|
| |Company|Same as Fast Track,|
| | |And|
| | |Company search to confirm|
| | |The customer is a current director and has been a director for the last 2 years|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000708

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Is a current shareholder

The percentage of shares held currently and for the past 2 years

That the shareholding and/or directorship have not been backdated

|Scenario|Requirements|
|---|---|
|Borrower receives PAYG income from an entity that is wholly or partially owned by their spouse| |
|Self-employed entity is a company, one borrower is a shareholder but not a director or The borrowers individually do not hold the minimum shareholding percentage| |
|Self-employed entity is a trust, one borrower is a beneficiary but not a trustee| |

Note: Any non self-employed income is to be verified as per policy contained in Verifying Income

# 2.2 Unacceptable self-employed income

Unsustainable Income (i.e. derived from a once off event), refer to Adjustments / Addbacks and Subtractions

The borrowers’ spouse must fit the banks definition of self-employed (for the specific entity) and be a co-borrower on the new loan.

When the above is met, both co-borrowers can be assessed using the same self-employed assessment method.

The borrowers on a combined basis must fit the banks definition of self-employed for the specific entity (e.g. combined they must hold >=50% of shares and have at least 1 director included as a borrower).

When the above is met - both co-borrowers can be assessed using the same self-employed assessment method

The borrowers spouse must fit the banks definition of self-employed and be a:

- Co-borrower or
- Income guarantor or
- Assessed under Apportioned Household Expenses and Commitments, on the new loan

Where the above is met, the non self-employed borrower may be assessed as:

- A PAYG customer as per Verifying income > Rules > Family employee, or
- Self-employed using the same assessment method as the borrower’s spouse

Link to source

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Income from an entity that has a strike off action recorded, is under administration or has a liquidator appointed, however if the entity is operating at a loss, it must be included in the serviceability assessment.

Company or trust distributions from an unrelated entity, i.e., the customers relationship to the entity does not meet the bank’s definition of self-employed.

Foreign self-employed income

Trust or partnership distributions that have been redistributed, including to non-adult beneficiaries

Positive income from a self-employed entity that has not been established and trading for two full financial years (Positive income is any income that is not a loss / negative adjustment).

Positive net adjustments / undistributed net profit where the directorship or shareholding of a company has been back dated* recently or overlaps the financial years being assessed.

Note: Back dated is where the directorship and/or shareholding has changed, but back dated to an earlier point in time (e.g. shareholding percentage changed 01/01/2020 and was backdated to be effective 25/12/2018)

# 2.3 Self-employed entity has been verified as making a loss

Where the customer meets the definition of self-employed:

- The loss must be reflected in the serviceability assessment.
- Customers must explain how any ongoing entity commitments will be met. Broker notes must capture outcomes of the discussion with the customer.
- If the entity is verified as making a loss, the 2 year assessment method must be used.
- Where a customers’ shareholding in a company has reduced (e.g. 80% to 20%) across the two financial years assessed and the company is trading at a loss, then the loss must be apportioned to the borrower based on the actual shareholding percentage in each separate financial year (the shareholding of the prior year cannot be reduced).

# 2.4 Self-employed assessment methods

Where there are multiple self-employed customers / entities and the customers receive income from the same self-employed entity, or from self-employed entities that are inter-linked (i.e. income moves from one self-employed entity to another), the income must be assessed using the same assessment method.

It is however acceptable to use a different income assessment method when the entities are completely independent of each other and there is no common flow / source of income.

Where an LMI premium is being waived or funded by the bank (e.g. during a marketing campaign), self-employed income verification is required to be assessed to mortgage insurance standards. This excludes medical professional customers who meet Medico Sector Lending Policy.

# 2.4.1 Fast Track

|Mandatory verification documents|Eligibility|
|---|---|
|Document(s) as detailed in Definition of self-employed|ABN search must confirm all self-employed entities have been established and trading for at least the two full financial years, including the period covered by the ATO NOA’s provided, and the customers declared period of self-employment. Only the self-employed customer can be assessed using this method. Fast Track cannot be used when the borrower on the new loan is an entity. The new loan being assessed must not be mortgage insured. Foreign income must not be received by the customer (this includes when the ATO NOA’s show a foreign tax credit or|

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Additional criteria
Fast Track is not available for an Independent contractor
Income used in pe serviceability assessment must be pe taxable income from pe ATO NOA’s only
Positive net adjustment / undistributed net profit from pe self-employed entity cannot be used in addition to Fast Track, and a self-employed entity (e.g. company or trust) must not be included separately in pe serviceability assessment
Any capital gains income on pe ATO NOA must be deducted from pe taxable income used in pe serviceability assessment
If pe self-employed customer also has a second completely independent PAYG job, pe PAYG income must be verified from pe ATO NOA’s only. If pe PAYG employment commenced after pe period covered by pe ATO NOAs, and pe income is required to be included, pen Fast Track is not available and pe latest year or 2 year average policy must be used.
Franking credits - no adjustment of pe taxable income is required i.e. a franking credit must not be added to or subtracted from pe Taxable income figure.
Company, trust or partnership commitment verification is not required.

Rental Income requirements
If pe customer has an investment property(s) pat earned rental income during pe period covered by pe ATO NOA’s (eiper part of, or pe entire period) and will continue to receive rental income (e.g. it is still rented / has not been sold):
Rental income must not be verified or entered separately as pe rental income is already included wipin pe ATO NOA’s taxable income.
As pe expenses are already captured in pe ATO NOA taxable income figure, $0 investment property expense(s) can be used for pe investment property, but pe following or similar comment must be entered for pe $0 expense explanation: “$0 investment property expenses captured as Fast Track assessed and pe rental property was owned during ATO NOAs period (or part pereof).”
Rental income tax deductions / negative gearing cannot be used.
If pe customer has an investment property(s) pat only started receiving rental income after pe period covered by pe ATO NOA’s:
Investment property expenses and rental income must be verified and loaded in ApplyOnline in line wip Verifying income policy, refer Verifying Income > rules you must apply > Supplementary Income, Serviceability Assessment > Rules you must apply > Rental income tax deductions for Australian investment properties (Negative Gearing) and Living Expenses > Living expenses not compared to HEM
Negative Gearing / Tax deductibility can be considered / included

Additional verification documents are provided or held (e.g. provided with the loan application or Link to more information

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Any income identified in the ITR as non-recurring or unacceptable (i.e. capital gain, PAYG from employment no longer held, rental income from a property sold, foreign income) must be subtracted from the ATO NOA taxable income figure.

When financials (profit loss and balance sheets) or entity ITR are held, the Simple Solvency Check (SSC) option may be available.

# Relationship managed or business bank connections

# 2.4.2 Latest year and 2 year average

In addition to all of the above requirements, must also meet the following:

- The new loan application must be standalone (not a mixed lending application) and assessed via OBP only
- The security cannot be cross collateralised with any business lending
- No business lending covenants exist within the connection

Documents detailed in Definition of self-employed

Latest year personal ATO NOA:

- Must include the front page showing the customer name and taxable income
- Must match the same taxable income as the latest personal income tax return (ITR)
- If ATO NOA has not issued, then the latest Australian Tax Return lodgement extract from MyGov Portal is acceptable where meets above requirements

Last 2 years personal ITRs

Last 2 years ITRs for all self-employed entities

Latest year financial statements (profit loss and balance sheets)* showing the last 2 years financial data. Where the financials only show 1 year of financial data, then 2 years financials are required.

*Mandatory only if the self-employed entity is a company, trust or a partnership that completes financials (i.e. a corporate partnership)

Note: All ITRs, financials and ATO NOA must match the same financial years.

ABN search must confirm all self-employed entities have been established and trading for at least the two full financial years, including the period covered by the ATO NOA’s provided, and the customers declared period of self-employment.

Customer must meet the customer relationship to the entity requirements

# Eligibility

# Latest year additional criteria

When the latest year income is:

- Lower than the prior year, the latest year must be used in the serviceability assessment.
- Higher than the prior year, the latest year can be used in the serviceability assessment, when the self-employed entity passes the following ‘volatility test’:
- The Net Profit Before Tax (NPBT) of the entity, in the latest year, must not have increased by more than 60% compared to the prior year

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000708

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Where the above ‘volatility test’ has passed, only the latest year needs to be fully verified.

Where the above ‘volatility test’, has failed, fully assess both the latest and the prior financial year

If the Adjusted Net Profit After Tax (ANPAT) figure in the latest year has not increased by more than 60% compared to the prior year ANPAT, the Latest year income may be used.

When the latest year ANPAT is More than 60% above the prior year ANPAT, then:

- Assess the income using the 2 year average assessment method, or
- Refer the loan application to Credit with supporting comments explaining the change in entity profitability and how this is considered sustainable.

In all instances:

Positive net adjustments / undistributed profits can be used where the customer meets the customer relationship to the entity requirements.

The following are not eligible to be assessed using Latest year income assessment:

- Applications assessed using the Fast Track assessment method
- When the income assessment reflects the entity is running at a loss in the latest year.
- When the entity has been trading for less than 2 full financial years

|Income Scenario / Entity type|Individual tax return assessment|
|---|---|
|Sole trader|Note: includes independent contractors, receivers of personal services income (PSI) income type in ITR|

All entity related Commitments and Living expenses must be included in ApplyOnline for serviceability assessment and verified, where required under policy

Start with the Business and Professional Items section and use the “NET income or loss from business” figure (typically item P8 in the personal ITR). This figure is prior to any add backs, subtractions, or adjustments.

Note: If the individual received Personal Services Income (PSI) it will be reflected in the Business and Professional Items section at P1. The “Net PSI” income figure can be added to the “Net income or loss from business” figure.

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000708

Entity type

|Entity type|Individual tax return assessment|Entity tax return assessment|
|---|---|---|
|Partnership|When assessing PAYG (salary or wages) from own self-employed entity, use the historic PAYG income received from that entity (in each separate financial year the income was received). Typically located at item 1 in the individual ITR.|Start with the “Net Australian income – other than capital gains” figure (typically item 20 in the ITR). This figure is prior to add backs, subtractions or adjustments and after reconciliations.|
|Partnership|Use the partnership distribution from item P13. When the partnership received a franking credit and has passed a franking credit tax offset to the customer this can be loaded in the Broker Serviceability Calculator.|Note: If the partnership includes foreign income and an exception has been requested to consider this income, then use the “Total of items 20 – 23” figure (typically item 24 in the tax return). This figure is the total income figure after the “Net Australian income – other than capital gains” figure. Existing rental income is not to be entered separately as it is already included in the net income. Where rental income is included in the serviceability assessment refer Rental income – Latest year and 2 year average methods. Partnership Commitments must be included in the self-employed income assessment / Broker Serviceability Calculator and verified where required under policy.|
|Trust|When assessing PAYG (salary or wages) from own self-employed entity, use the historic PAYG income received from own self-employed entity (in each separate financial year the income was received). Typically located at item 1 the individual personal tax return.|Start with the “Total net income or loss” figure (typically item 26 in the tax return). This figure is prior to any add backs, subtractions or adjustments and after reconciliations. Existing rental income is not to be entered separately as is already included in the net income. Where rental income is included in the serviceability assessment refer Rental income – Latest year and 2 year average methods. Trust Commitments must be included in the self-employed income assessment / Broker Serviceability Calculator and verified where required under policy.|
|Company|When assessing PAYG (salary or wages) and / or director fees from own company, use the historic PAYG and / or director fee income received from own company.|Start with the “Taxable / net income or loss” figure, after any reconciliations (typically item at 7 in the tax return). This figure is prior to|

For more information, visit: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000708

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Each separate financial year the income was received). Typically located at item 1 the individual personal tax return. If the company has paid a dividend load the actual dividend received in the Broker Serviceability Calculator. If the company has paid a Franking Credit, load the actual Franking Credit received in the Broker Serviceability Calculator. Existing rental income is not to be entered separately as is already included in the net income. Where rental income is included in the serviceability assessment refer Rental income – Latest year and 2 year average methods. Company Commitments must be included in the self-employed income assessment / Broker Serviceability Calculator and verified where required under policy. If using the actual dividend received (not including any positive net adjustments / undistributed profit) Shareholding in the company may be less than 50%. Refer to the definition of self-employed. If including any positive net adjustments / undistributed profit Shareholding in the company must not be less than 50%. Refer Customer relationship to the entity. The default tax rate used in the serviceability assessment is 30%. When the entity has made a profit and is required to pay tax, the tax rate (used in the income assessment of the entity) can be reduced to the actual historic tax rate paid: load the total tax payable from item T5 into the Broker Serviceability Calculator (Assessing the reduced tax rate is optional).

# 2.4.4 Simple Solvency Check (SSC) assessment

The SSC is a method for confirming if an entity is solvent / profitable. The SSC can only be used in the following two scenarios:

- Under Fast Track when additional self-employed verification documents other than the ATO NOA’s are held
- Under “Exceptions to providing 2 years tax returns / financials” when the entity ABN is active, but the loan application is reliant on income from a different self-employed entity only.

The self-employed entity SSC test:

- Net profit before tax (NPBT) must be greater than $0 in both financial years (where two years financials or ITR’s are held), and
- Current assets must be greater than current liabilities, in the latest financial year only.

When using the Fast Track assessment method

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

SSC is only to be used when entity financials and or / ITR’s are held and contain pe current assets, liabilities as well as pe net profit.
SSC must be performed on all financials / ITR’s pat are wipin age of document requirements, or On bop years of any financials pat show 2 years financial data, when 1 year is wipin age of document requirements.
When using pe Latest year or 2 year assessment mepod: In all cases SSC cannot be used when a positive net adjustment / undistributed profit from pat entity is included wip pe serviceability assessment
In all cases pe SSC is available Exceptions to pe SSC are not permitted – i.e. where documents are held and SSC does not pass it is not acceptable to obtain a customer declaration or accountant letter SSC can be performed on interim financials providing no income from pe entity is used in pe serviceability assessment (including PAYG, dividends, franking credits, directors’ fees, distributions, undistributed profit etcetera) SSC can be performed when pe entity has been operating for less pan 2 full financial years providing no income from pe entity is used in pe serviceability assessment

Adjustments / Addbacks and Subtractions

Subtractions

All income that will not be ongoing must be subtracted whenever evident on any of the income verification documents or identified through discussions with the customer. This expectation applies to all self-employed assessment methods.

Non-recurring income includes but is not limited to

Capital gains
Profit on sale of an asset
Interest
Fringe Benefit Tax (FBT) employee contributions
Grants or boost payments
Any oper form of non-ongoing income
Rent from an investment property pat has been sold / no longer receiving rent.

Addbacks

Addbacks are expenses of the entity that can be added back when completing a full verification assessment on the entity. Including addbacks with the income assessment is optional.

Addbacks:

|Must be evident in the entities tax returns and financials if utilising the add back.|
|---|
|Must be added-back pre-tax (all addbacks)|
|Cannot be used with the Fast Track self-employed assessment method|
|Can be used with the latest year or the 2 year average methods|
|Addback|Expense type:|Additional Requirements|
|Depreciation|No additional requirements|

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Amortisation

Instant asset write off

Historic Interest

Historic Lease / Hire purchase

Loss on sale of an asset

Prior year loss brought forward in the ITR

Comments must be entered into ApplyOnline to explain:

Other

What the expense is and How the expense has been confirmed as a one off

Only the portion above the super guarantee (SG), that the entity has paid on behalf of the customer, can be added back. Refer to the Australian Taxation Office Super Guarantee for the SG percentage.

Excess superannuation

2.4.6 Rental income – Latest year and 2 year average methods

Rental income, expenses and any interest or tax deductibility must align to the owner of the property, to ensure serviceability is correctly calculated. When assessing the investment property income and expenses the investment property assessment table (below) must be followed.

|Investment property assessment| |
|---|---|
|Scenario|Requirements|
|Investment property is being purchased in this transaction (by an individual or by an entity)|When the borrower is an individual enter any rental income tax deduction / negative gearing via ApplyOnline, Refer to Serviceability Assessment > rules you must apply > Rental income tax deductions for Australian investment properties (Negative Gearing) Rental income to be verified as per Verifying income > Rules you must apply > Supplementary Income Rental income and related investment property expenses must be loaded in ApplyOnline with the real estate collateral. Refer to Living Expense policy > Rules you must apply > expense category table.|

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000708

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Where pe borrower/purchaser is an entity, rental income tax deduction / negative gearing is not available

2. Investment property is already owned by an individual

Rental income is to be verified and assessed as per scenario 1.

Note: For all the following scenarios (3-7):

- The Net rental feature must be used (located within the Broker Serviceability Calculator) and Rental income tax deduction / negative gearing is not available.
- If the property is owned by an individual but accounted for in the partnership or trust returns, scenarios 3-7 must be applied.

From the entity tax return rental schedule capture the:

- Gross rent for the investment property and
- Number of weeks the property was rented

3. Investment property owned by an entity, currently rented, and rented for the entire period covered by the ITRs, used for serviceability assessment.

From the entity tax return rental schedule capture the:

- Gross rent for the investment property and
- Number of weeks the property was rented

4. Property owned by an entity, currently rented but rented for only part of the period covered by the ITRs, used for serviceability assessment.

Rental income is not received on a short term basis (e.g. the property is not holiday or student accommodation)

- Interest, depreciation (including capital allowance) and any once off expenses can be added back (do not use the net rental feature for addbacks) where policy allows the addback type, refer Adjustments / Addbacks and Subtractions

5. Property owned by an entity and currently rented but not rented in the period covered by the ITRs, used in the Supplementary Income

The net rental feature will calculate a rental adjustment figure that must be loaded with the self-employed income and included in the serviceability assessment.

Note: Investment property expenses do not need to be captured as are already included in the tax return net profit and property expense floor rate will not apply.

Interest, depreciation (including capital allowance) and any once off expenses can be added back (do not use the net rental feature for addbacks) where policy allows the addback type, refer Adjustments / Addbacks and Subtractions

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000708

assessment.

Rental income is not received on a short term basis (e.g. the not holiday or student accommodation)

Interest, depreciation (including capital allowance) and any once off expenses can be added back (do not use pe net rental feature for addbacks) where policy allows pe addback type, refer Adjustments / Addbacks and Subtractions
From pe entity tax return rental schedule capture pe:
Gross rent for pe investment property and
Number of weeks pe property was rented

Property is rented on a short term basis and owned by an entity, currently rented / available for rent on a short term basis, but rented for only part of the period covered by the ITRs, used in the assessment.

Interest, depreciation (including capital allowance) and any once off expenses can be added back (do not use pe net rental feature for addbacks) where policy allows pe addback type, refer Adjustments / Addbacks and Subtractions

Property is rented on a short term basis and owned by an entity, is currently rented / available for rent on a short term basis, but not rented in the period covered by the ITRs, used in the assessment.

Customer relationship to the entity

When using any surplus positive net adjustment / undistributed profit from an entity the following rules apply.

Note: in all company relationships the Directorship / shareholding must not be back dated, Refer

Rental income cannot be used in the serviceability assessment

The Net rental feature must be used (located within the Self-Employed Income Calculator)

Capture the customer declared investment property expenses

The net rental feature will calculate a rental adjustment figure that must be loaded with the self-employed income and included in the serviceability assessment.

Note: Investment property expenses do not need to be captured as are already included in the tax return net profit, plus an additional 10% shading.

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Related expenses to be confirmed. Refer to Living Expense policy > Rules you must apply > expense category table.

The net rental feature will calculate a rental adjustment figure that must be loaded with the self-employed income (in the latest financial year only) as a taxed add back

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000708

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Individual entity|Customer relationship to entity 1|
|---|---|
|Sole trader|Is the sole trader|
|Partnership|Must be a partner|
|Trust|Must be both a trustee and a beneficiary of the trust|
|Company|Must be both a current company director and hold a minimum 50% shareholding.|

|Multiple entities|Entity 2 relationship to entity 1|Customer relationship to entity 2|
|---|---|---|
|Entity 1|to entity 1|relationship to entity 1|
|Partnership|Company is a partner|N/A|
|Trust|Company is the trustee and a beneficiary|Must be both a current company director and minimum 50% shareholder|
|Trust|Company is the beneficiary but not the trustee|Must be a trustee of entity 1|
|Company|Trust is the shareholder holding a minimum 50% shares|Must be a current company director of entity 1|
|Company|Trust is the shareholder holding a minimum 50% shares|Must be both a trustee and a beneficiary of the trust|

# 2.6 Exceptions to providing 2 years tax returns / financials

Completing the ABN search is required in all instances and may be completed via ABN look-up. A Company search may be completed via IQ Connect. Unless specifically stated, the below scenarios are not an exception to policy and do not require an override.

|Scenario|Requirements|
|---|---|
|1|ABN search confirms the entity is: Acceptable without further verification or referral to Credit|

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000708

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Cancelled, deregistered or inactive, and|Credit bureau report does not show any bankruptcy (discharged or current), and|
|---|---|
|ITRs / financials from the entity are not held.|When the entity is a company, the company search shows no strike off action, under administration or liquidation / liquidator appointed.|

The application may progress without seeking entity financials where:

ABN search confirms the entity is:
Active, but no longer operating and ITRs / financials from the entity are not held.
Option 2

An accountants letter / email advice has been provided (refer accountants letter / email advice below)

Where the above option 1 or 2 criteria are not met in full then:

Collect ITRs, financials and fully verify the entity (using the Broker Serviceability Calculator) to confirm if it is trading at a profit or a loss.

If the entity is trading at a loss the self-employed entity cannot be excluded from the serviceability assessment, refer Self-employed entity has been verified as making a loss

ABN search confirms the entity is:
Active and operating but the loan application is reliant on independent PAYG only, i.e. no self-employed income is being used in the assessment, and ITRs / financials from the entity are not held.
Refer definition for Income

The application may progress without seeking entity financials where:

Option 1

The customer has declared the entity is operating profitably and is not receiving any income from the individual to support the entity.

The credit bureau report, liability and transaction account statements held have been reviewed and confirm there is no adverse conduct (e.g. dishonours, defaults) and no indications that the individual is providing money to the entity, Refer Loan Application and Approval &gt; Reviewing customer provided information.

Option 1

The customer has confirmed the entity is not operating in any capacity and has no turnover, expenses, or liabilities and

The credit bureau report, liability and transaction account statements held have been reviewed and confirm there are no indications that the entity has any turnover, expenses, liabilities, or entity-related enquiries (Refer Loan Application and Approval &gt; Reviewing customer provided information) and

When the entity is a company, the company search does not show strike off action, under administration or liquidation / liquidator appointed.

Note: option 1 is not available if returns or financials are held or when the loan is not assessed, and documents issued from OBP (e.g. not available for loans assessed via GOE or clas)

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000708

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

types considered self-employed
When pe entity is a company, pe company search does not show strike off action, under administration or liquidation/liquidator appointed.
The application passes credit score.

Note: option 1 is not available if returns or financials are held or when the loan is not assessed, and documents issued from OBP (e.g. not available for loans assessed via GOE or clas)

Option 2

An accountants letter/email advice has been provided (refer accountants letter/email advice below)

Where the above option 1 or 2 are not met in full then:

- Collect ITRs, financials and fully assess the entity (using the Broker Serviceability Calculator) to confirm if it is trading at a profit or a loss.
- If the entity is trading at a loss the self-employed entity cannot be excluded from the serviceability assessment, refer Self-employed entity has been verified as making a loss

The entity ABN is active, but the loan application is reliant on income from a different self-employed entity only

Option 2

Obtain an accountants letter/email advice (refer accountants letter/email advice below). An accountants letter/email advice cannot be used where returns or financials are held for the entity.

Directorship and shareholding relates to Company Title security

For definition of a Company title, refer to Glossary

Partners from selected companies

Where the customer is a partner from:

Allens, Binder Dijker Otte – BDO, Clayton Utz, Corrs Chambers Westgarth, Deloitte, Ernst & Young, Gadens, Gilbert & Tobin, Grant Thornton, Herbert Smith Freehills, HWL Ebsworth Lawyers, King & Wood Mallesons, KPMG, May be accepted by the assessor only where the:

- Company search confirms sub-class 'Home unit proprietary company':
- Include commentary in ApplyOnline assessment notes; and
- Upload the Company search to ApplyOnline.

Option 1

- Collect financials and ITRs from the entity
- Use the Simple Solvency Check (SSC) if available or
- Fully assess the entity (using the Broker Serviceability Calculator) to confirm if it is trading at a profit or a loss.
- If the entity is trading at a loss or if there are inter-entity flows, the entity cannot be excluded from the serviceability assessment and the Simple Solvency Check method cannot be used.

Note: When the entity has been operating for less than 2 years collect ITRs/financials for the period the entity has been operating.

Link to more information

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

McGrath Nicol, Minter Ellison, Norton Rose Fulbright, Pitcher Partners, PKF, PWC, RSM Australia, William Buck

Refer to Verifying Income &gt; Rules &gt; Verifying Self-employed income &gt; Partners from selected companies (AUD)

Self-employed Medical professionals who meet the eligibility criteria for assessment under Medico Sector Lending policy:

Medico Sector Lending policy

This is an exception to policy

Self-employed entity has been trading for greater than 1 year but less than 2 years, and income from the self-employed entity is to be used towards serviceability

Refer definition for Income types considered self-employed

Accountants letter / email advice

Only scenarios 2, 3 and 4 allow an accountants letter / email advice as an option. When using an accountants letter / email advice the broker / assessor must:

- Verify the Accountant’s or Accounting firm’s tax agent / BAS agent registration status is current, using https://www.tpb.gov.au/registrations_search and upload the search result to ApplyOnline
- Validate that the letter has addressed all the below requirements. If the letter does not address all the below criteria or when tax returns / financials for the entity are held, the letter is unacceptable and cannot be used.

The accountants letter / email advice must adhere to the document standards, plus in addition must confirm:

- That the Accountant has completed the latest year’s tax returns and / or associated financial statements for the specific entity, or

If seeking consideration:

- Obtain tax returns / financials for the period the entity has been trading.
- Ensure the customer can demonstrate a solid history of experience and expertise in the same industry of the self-employment, prior to the commencement of self-employment.
- Refer the application to Credit:
- - Credit may request additional information to assist with the assessment (e.g. accountant prepared interim financials.)
- If the application is approved an override code must be loaded

Are permitted to provide a single year of tax returns.
- Must comply with eligibility and Income verification requirements within Special Packages - Medico Sector policy
- Evidence of Australian Business Number registration search must show at least 2 full financial years ABN registration.

Where an application is assessed using Medico sector Lending policy and both customers are self-employed:

- Only the eligible qualifying medical professional can be assessed using a single year of financials and tax returns.
- The non-qualifying medical professionals must adhere to the standard self-employed policy.

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000708

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Where the entity has only recently commenced (within the current financial year) the accountant must confirm:

- The date the entity commenced, and
- How long they have been acting as accountant for the applicant, and
- That they have completed the BAS since the entity commenced (where BAS was required to be lodged).

Confirm that the entity:

- Is not operating in any capacity (including when the entity ceased operating or that the entity never commenced operating) and has no current or deferred commitments or
- Is trading profitably; and
- Has sufficient current earnings from recurring income to meet their ongoing debts (i.e. after all expenses including but not limited to the principal component of any debts, wages, superannuation and taxation obligations without drawing on any retained prior year profits, capital gain, sale of business assets or reliance on any once off grant, boost payment e.g., COVID etc); and
- There is no reliance on any income from the customers (borrower, guarantor, or Apportioned shared commitment) by the entity including no loans from customer to the entity

# Change History

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|1|3 November 2021|First OBP issue online for Brokers on the OKA platform.|
|2|November 2021|Links updated|
|3|December 2021|Removed the ‘SAI Global’ logo from the ‘Company Title’ screenshot example. Provider name is not relevant to the purpose of the attachment and removing it will ‘future proof’ for provider changes or provider business name changes|
|4|20 February 2022|Change 1: Policy rewrite and Westpac Group alignment Change 2: Updated the table 2.1.1 “Applications by income source” with the following content When assessing PAYG (salary or wages) and/or director fees from own company, use the historic PAYG and/or director fee income received from own company (in each separate financial year the income was received). This will typically be located at item 1 the individual personal tax return. Change 3: Corrected the hyperlink in 2.1.3 “Exceptions to providing 2 years tax returns / financials” Removed the hyperlink to “Verifying ABN is not active and replaced with a link to “Completing ABN, business name or company searches. Also added the following content to 4. Completing ABN, business name or company searches Link|

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|5|3 April 2022|Updated the addbacks section to clarify that depreciation / Amortisation is not an acceptable add back for a Trust entity. Policy correction: Correction to the “what do I need to do” column of the depreciation add back table: Old wording: (depreciation addback percentage cannot exceed the personal use percentage) New wording: (depreciation addback percentage cannot exceed the business use percentage)|
|6|22 May 2022|Section ‘Rules> Assessing self-employed applications> Age of documents’ changed from ‘Refer to: Loan Application and Approval > Full application date’ to ‘Refer to: Loan Application and Approval > Responsible Lending Start Date’. Included a link to the ‘Loan application and approval’ chapter which has been updated to define the ‘Responsible Lending Start Date’|
|7|21 August 2022|Deleted references to the ‘Minimum Document Standards Matrix’. The matrix has been superseded, with all matrix rules transferred into the main body of the ‘Document Standards’ chapter. Existing references have been updated to point to the ‘Document Standards’ chapter|
|8|2 October 2022|Change 1: Update to content in section 2.2.2 Rental income – fully verified self-employed – 2 year average > Investment property assessment (table) Scenario 1 - Investment property is being purchased in this transaction (by an individual or by an entity *) Old: Related expenses to be loaded in AOL with the real estate collateral. Refer to Living Expense policy > Rules you must apply > expense category table. Enter any rental income tax deduction / negative gearing via AOL. Refer to Serviceability Assessment > rules you must apply > Rental income tax deductions for Australian investment properties (Negative Gearing) New: When the borrower is an individual: Enter any rental income tax deduction / negative gearing via AOL. Refer to|

An ABN search can confirm if the ABN is active, how long the ABN has been active and the GST registration status. Complete an ABN search using ABN Look-up via www.abr.business.gov.au.

Where the search result shows the ABN is 'cancelled' or 'in-active':

- Include a comment in OBP and;
- Upload the ABN search to OBP

If the applicant discloses the entity has commitments or if it is evident via the Bank's systems, the commitments must be included in the serviceability assessment. See example of non-trading entity verified by ABN search

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |Serviceability Assessment > rules you must apply > Rental income tax deductions for Australian investment properties (Negative Gearing) When the borrower is an entity: Rental income tax deduction / negative gearing is not available|
|Change 2| |Update to content in section 2.2.2 Rental income – fully verified self-employed – 2 year average > Investment property assessment (table) Scenario 4. Investment property owned by an entity*, currently rented but rented for only part of the period covered by the tax returns, used for serviceability assessment. Change of name to scenario 4, new name 4. Investment property owned by an entity*, currently rented but rented for only part of the period covered by the tax returns, used for serviceability assessment. Rental income is not received on a short term basis (e.g. the property is not holiday or student accommodation)|
|Change 3| |Update to content in section 2.2.2 Rental income – fully verified self-employed – 2 year average > Investment property assessment (table) 5. Investment property owned by an entity* and currently rented but not rented in the period covered by the tax returns, used in the serviceability assessment. Change of name to scenario 5, new name 5. Investment property owned by an entity* and currently rented but not rented in the period covered by the tax returns, used in the serviceability assessment. Rental income is not received on a short term basis (e.g. the property is not holiday or student accommodation)|
|Change 4| |Update to content in section 2.2.2 Rental income – fully verified self-employed – 2 year average > Investment property assessment (table) New scenario 6 and 7 added|

6. Investment property is rented on a short term basis and owned by an entity*, currently rented but rented for only part of the period covered by the tax returns, used for serviceability assessment.

The net rental adjustment is based on: Gross actual rental income (no annualising) adjust for shading, however an additional The Net rental feature must be used (located within the Self-Employed Income Calculator) Capture the gross rent for the investment property from the entity tax return rental schedule Capture the number of weeks the property was rented from the entity tax return rental schedule The net rental feature will calculate a rental adjustment figure that must be loaded with the self-employed income and included in the serviceability assessment.

Link to more information

7/4/24, 11:04 AM                                                               WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |10% rental shading (over and above the standard minimum rental shading) will be included, to account for investment property expenses (irrespective of whether the property was rented for 1 week or 51 weeks of the financial year). the rental income already received will then be subtracted. Note : Investment property expenses do not need to be captured as are already included in the tax return net profit, plus an additional 10% shading. Rental income tax deduction / negative gearing is not available. Interest, depreciation (including capital allowance) and any once off expenses can be added back to the entity (do not use the net rental feature for add backs) where policy allows the addback type. Refer to Allowable addbacks|
|7. Investment property is rented on a short term basis and owned by an entity * is currently rented but not rented in the period covered by the tax returns , used in the serviceability assessment.|Rental income cannot be used in the serviceability assessment Capture the customer declared investment property expenses The net rental feature will calculate a rental adjustment figure that must be loaded with the self-employed income and included in the serviceability assessment.|Change 5 Policy clarification – impacted section 2.3.5 Superannuation (sole trader, partnerships and company structures) Old A Superannuation Guarantee Charge is only compulsory to a Sole Trader, Partnership that has an external employee or under a company structure. Though it is not compulsory for self-employed applicants to contribute towards superannuation, in some instances, applicants do make large bulk payments to such funds. Owners of companies often make contributions on their own behalf in excess, of the Superannuation Guarantee Charge. The Superannuation Guarantee Charge is assessed as a percentage of the salary and the director’s fees ( in the case of a company ) paid to the employees and company director(s). The amount of any contribution made in excess, of the statutory requirement, may be used as an add-back. This will only be considered appropriate when the Profit and Loss statement clearly shows payments were made on behalf of the applicants and not the employees and it can be demonstrated that the excess contributions are not required to service any Self-Managed Super Fund ( SMSF ) borrowings that the self-employed applicant may have.|

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000708                                                                            21/42

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|New| |A superannuation guarantee cost is only compulsory to a Sole Trader, Partnership that has an external employee or under a company structure. Though it is not compulsory for self-employed applicants to contribute towards superannuation, in some instances, applicants do make large bulk payments to such funds. Owners of companies often make contributions on their own behalf in excess, of the statutory superannuation guarantee amount. The superannuation guarantee cost is assessed as a percentage of the salary and the director’s fees (in the case of a company) paid to the employees and company director(s). The amount of any contribution made in excess, of the statutory requirement, may be used as an add-back. This will only be considered appropriate when the Profit and Loss statement clearly shows payments were made on behalf of the applicants and not the employees and it can be demonstrated that the excess contributions are not required to service any Self-Managed Super Fund (SMSF) borrowings that the self-employed applicant may have.|
|Change 6|Policy clarification – impacted section 2.3.5 Superannuation (sole trader, partnerships and company structures) > example table|Old|
| | |Sole trader, Partnership|
| | |Net profit from the Business|$30,000|
| | |Superannuation Guarantee Charge|Nil|
| | |Superannuation paid|$5,000|
| | |Excess Contribution|$5,000|
| | |Company (in this example a director’s fee was not paid.)|
| | |PAYG Salary from the Company|$30,000|
| | |Superannuation Guarantee Charge at 9.5%|$2,850|
| | |Superannuation paid|$5,000|
| | |Excess Contribution|$2,150|
|New| |Sole trader, Partnership|
| | |Net profit from the Business|$30,000|

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000708

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |Statutory superannuation guarantee amount|
| | |Nil|
| | |Superannuation paid|
| | |$5,000|
| | |Excess Contribution|
| | |$5,000|
| | |Company (in this example a director’s fee was not paid.)|
| | |PAYG Salary from the Company|
| | |$30,000|
| | |Statutory superannuation guarantee cost at 9.5%|
| | |Note: the statutory superannuation guarantee cost of 9.5% is used for illustration purposes only.|
| | |Refer to the Australian Taxation Office for current Super Guarantee rates.|
| | |$2,850|
| | |Superannuation paid|
| | |$5,000|
| | |Excess Contribution|
| | |$2,150|

# Change 7

Policy clarification – impacted section 2.6 Fast track self-employed assessment

Old

Income from the self-employed applicant is to be verified completely from the applicants personal ATO NOA's, i.e. no further income documentation is to be requested, where servicing is met using income from the ATO NOA’s.

New

Income from the self-employed applicant is to be verified completely from the applicants personal ATO NOA's, i.e. no further self-employed income documentation (within age of documentation requirements) is to be held or requested, where servicing is met using income from the ATO NOA’s.

# Change 8

Policy clarification – impacted section 2.6.1 Eligibility criteria – fast track self-employed assessment

New dot point added

The only self-employed income verification documents that have been provided to the bank or held on file (within age of document requirements) are the ATO NOAs

# Change 9

Policy clarification – Exclusion criteria – fast track self-employed assessment

New dot point added

The bank is provided with or holds any self-employed income verification documents (within age of document requirements) other than the ATO NOAs.

# Change 10

In the “2.2 Fully verified self-employed assessment” section;

Deleted

Where there are combined self-employed and PAYG applicants, all applicant(s) income and employment are to be fully verified in line with

Link to more information

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|Change 11| |Standard policy requirements. For further information regarding PAYG requirements refer to Verifying Income policy. Added the “Income assessment method” table.|
| | |2.3 Serviceability calculations – fully verified self-employed standard assessment 2 year average has been re-named to Serviceability calculations, approval conditions and authority level - fully verified self-employed assessment. The requirement to initially test serviceability based on the standard assessment 2 year average method has been deleted. “The income used for serviceability assessment is outlined in the table below” has been re written completely.|
| | |New content:|
| | |<br/>Income verification method|Scenario|Income used for serviceability assessment|Approval conditions and authority level|
|Fully verified self-employed – 2 year average|Most recent years|The most recent year’s income must be used for serviceability| |
| | |Or| |
| | |Fully verified self-employed – Latest year income| |
| | | |When the most recent year’s income is higher than the prior year|
|Fully verified self-employed – 2 year average| |The average of the most recent year and the prior year’s income must be used for serviceability|For policy rules refer to Fully verified self-employed assessment &gt; income assessment method &gt; Fully verified – 2 year average|
| | | | |
|Fully verified self-employed – Latest year income| |When the latest year’s income is higher than the previous year| |
| | | | |
| |Non-mortgage insured only (Mortgage insured applications are not eligible for assessment using latest year income)| | |
| |Fully verified self-employed – Latest year income| |Lender / assessors can approve where: the 2 year average income is &lt;= 130%|

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000708

Amendment Amendment Description of changes number issue date

income policy of pe prior year's has been met figure; and pe appropriate self-employed DRA is held (providing pe remainder of pe application is wipin peir aupority). Where pe 2 years average income is > 130% of pe prior year’s income pen following options are available: Assess serviceability using pe Fully verified self-employed assessment > income assessment mepod > Fully verified – 2 year average; or Refer pe loan application to Credit wip supporting rational discussing pe change in business profitability and how pis is considered sustainable. Refer to Guide to understanding changes to business profitability and recording supporting rational e for Fully verified - Latest year income assessment. Credit will review and may eiper: support and approve wipin policy, recommend assessment based on a 2 year average; or request furper

25/42

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|Supporting commentary / documentation if appropriate.|
|---|---|---|---|
|Change 12|Deleted|2.4 Fully verified self employed assessment – Latest year income and 2.5 Fully verified self employed assessment COVID Recovery (FY2019 income) sections.| |
|Change 13|Serviceability Assessment – Fast track self-employed assessment|Deleted: the average income is <= 130% of the prior year's figure and ; Where the average income is > 130% of the prior year figure, the application will refer to Credit If the application 'refers to Credit' due to 'income >130% of prior year', Credit will review the application and decide if it can continue to proceed using the fast track process. In some cases Credit may decide the application needs to be assessed as a Fully verified self-employed standard assessment - 2 year average application, where this occurs the applicant will need to provide additional information.| |
|Change 14|Accountants letter;|Deleted Fully verified self employed assessment (latest year income) and Fully verified self employed assessment COVID Recovery (FY 2019 income) from the table| |
|Change 15|Guide to understanding changes to business profitability and recording supporting rationale for Fully verified - latest year income assessment;|Deleted; It is best practice to record factors relating to the assessment of self-employed / business income in all cases, regardless of whether the file is approved within your authority (DRA) or is escalated to Credit for consideration. Including but not limited to when: average income > 130% of prior year income or; using the single latest years income for serviceability assessment or ; Added: It is best practice to record factors relating to the assessment of self-employed / business income in all cases, regardless of whether the file is approved within your authority (OVA) or is escalated to Credit for consideration. When assessing serviceability based on the latest year self-employed income and the two years average income is >130% of the prior years income, it is mandatory to review the business financials and to enter supporting comments to explain: Supporting comments should refer to the appropriate items in the financials/tax returns where possible and may also be supported by customer conversations and additional supporting documents if appropriate.| |

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000708

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|9|20 November 2022|Change 1 Under section ‘Exceptions to providing 2 years tax returns / financials’ > Partners from selected companies’ included the below companies: Gilbert & Tobin, Pitcher Partners, Binder Dijker Otte – BDO, William Buck|
| | |Change 2 Added a new scenario to the ‘Exceptions to providing 2 years tax returns / financials’ table Applicant is self-employed and self-employed entity is a non-trading entity or investment holding vehicle and only the tax returns for the entity are held. Financials / profit loss and balance sheets are not completed for the entity Self-employed income from the non-trading entity includes the below types, where the entity may be wholly or partially owned by the applicant: Directors fees, Dividends, Undistributed company profit, Trust distributions, Partnership distributions|
| | |Change 3 Added a new scenario to the ‘Accountants letter / Accountants email advice mandatory requirements' table This scenario may be accepted by the assessor without referral to Credit where the tax returns of the entity are held supported by an accountants’ letter or accountants’ email advice. Assessors must: Refer to Accountants’ letter for the specific information that must be included on the accountants’ letter / accountants’ email advice; and Enter OBP assessment notes with commentary of the verification outcome. Note: This option can-not be used where: The entity is a sole trader or personal services entity or Where the entity is trading as a business (in any capacity or any turnover amount) or Financials were provided by the applicant to the Bank|

Applicant is self-employed and self-employed entity is a non-trading entity or investment holding vehicle Adhere to the standards outlined in Documents standards policy: Accountants letter

27/42

7/4/24, 11:04 AM                                                               WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|Change 4|Updated section ‘Applications by income source > Dividend received from own company and used for serviceability calculations (not using any undistributed company profit)’|
|Old wording|Not eligible for Fast track assessment, obtain the following income verification documents: Last 2 years Company tax returns and financial statements (profit loss and balance sheets must be reviewed to identify if Company is trading profitably or at a loss) and Last 2 years Personal tax returns are required, supported by each years ATO Notice of assessment for mortgage insured applications, or latest single year ATO notice of assessment for non-mortgage insured applications year (whilst preferable to hold all pages of the ATO NOA, minimum requirement is for page 1 (front page) of the ATO NOA to be held for Fully verified Self-employed applicant).|
|Accountants email advice Confirmation that the Accountant has completed the most recent / latest year’s tax returns; and Detail all liabilities the entity has; and Confirm the entity does not trade or operate as a business in any capacity or any turnover amount; and Specifically confirm that financials / profit loss & balance sheets are not prepared for the entity.| |
|New wording|Not eligible for Fast track assessment, obtain the following income verification documents : Last 2 years Company tax returns and financial statements (profit loss and balance sheets must be reviewed to identify if Company is trading profitably or at a loss); and Last 2 years Personal tax returns are required, supported by: For non-mortgage insured: latest single year ATO notice of assessment; or If ATO NOA has not issued: latest Australian Tax Return lodgement extract from MyGov Portal For mortgage insured: each years ATO Notice of assessment; or If ATO NOA/s has not issued: latest Australian Tax Return lodgement extract from MyGov Portal Note: Where an ATO NOA is used, whilst it is preferable to hold all pages of the ATO NOA, the minimum requirement is for page 1 (front page) of the ATO NOA to be held for Fully verified Self-employed applicant.|

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000708                                                                   28/42

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|Change 5| |Updated section ‘Applications by income source >PAYG income from own company and / or Directors fees from own company only’ Old wording Where not eligible for fast-track assessment, obtain the following income verification documents: - Last 2 years Trust and / or Company tax returns (to identify if Company is trading profitably or at a loss) and
- financial statements (including profit and loss accounts and balance sheets) showing two years of financial data corresponding to the tax returns provided and
- Last 2 years Personal tax returns supported by each years ATO Notice of assessment for mortgage insured applications, or latest single year ATO notice of assessment for non-mortgage insured applications (whilst preferable to hold all pages of the ATO NOA, minimum requirement is for page 1 (front page) of the ATO NOA to be held for Fully verified Self-employed applicant).
New wording Where not eligible for fast-track assessment, obtain the following income verification documents: - Last 2 years Trust and / or Company tax returns (to identify if Company is trading profitably or at a loss) and
- financial statements (including profit and loss accounts and balance sheets) showing two years of financial data corresponding to the tax returns provided; and
- Last 2 years Personal tax returns supported by:
Note: Where an ATO NOA is used, whilst it is preferable to hold all pages of the ATO NOA, the minimum requirement is for page 1 (front page) of the ATO NOA to be held for Fully verified Self-employed applicant).|
|Change 6| |Updated section ‘ Exceptions to providing 2 years tax returns / financials > Applicant is self-employed and no income from the related business / self-employed entity is used towards serviceability and Business / self-employed entity is trading’ Old wording Obtain the following income verification documents: - Latest single year personal tax returns supported by ATO Notice of Assessment (if self-employed as a sole trader or personal services income only) (whilst preferable to hold all pages of the ATO NOA, minimum requirement is for page 1 (front page) of the ATO NOA to be held for Fully verified Self-employed applicant); and
New wording Obtain the following income verification documents: - Latest single year personal tax returns supported by:
|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000708

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |ATO Notice of Assessment (if self-employed as a sole trader or personal services income only); or If ATO NOA has not issued: latest Australian Tax Return lodgement extract from MyGov Portal (if self-employed as a sole trader or personal services income only) Note: Where an ATO NOA is used, whilst it is preferable to hold all pages of the ATO NOA, the minimum requirement is for page 1 (front page) of the ATO NOA to be held for Fully verified Self-employed applicant); Old wording Where the business has been trading for > 1 year and < 2 years obtain the income verification documents for the period the business has been trading: Personal tax returns supported by each years ATO notice of assessment for mortgage insured applications, or latest single year ATO notice of assessment for non-mortgage insured applications (whilst preferable to hold all pages of the ATO NOA, minimum requirement is for page 1 (front page) of the ATO NOA to be held for Fully verified Self-employed applicant); and New wording Where the business has been trading for > 1 year and < 2 years obtain the income verification documents for the period the business has been trading: Personal tax returns supported by: For non-mortgage insured: latest single year ATO notice of assessment; or If ATO NOA has not issued: latest Australian Tax Return lodgement extract from MyGov Portal For mortgage insured: each years ATO Notice of assessment; or If ATO NOA/s has not issued: latest Australian Tax Return lodgement extract from MyGov Portal Note: Where an ATO NOA is used, (whilst it is preferable to hold all pages of the ATO NOA, the minimum requirement is for page 1 (front page) of the ATO NOA to be held for Fully verified Self-employed applicant);|
| | |Change7 Updated section ‘ Income verification - fully verified self-employed assessment > Fully verified 2 year average‘ Old wording Non-Mortgage insured: Last 2 years Personal tax return supported by latest single year ATO notice of assessment (whilst preferable to hold all pages of the ATO NOA, minimum requirement is for page 1 (front page) of the ATO NOA to be held for Fully verified Self-employed applicant) and New wording Non-Mortgage insured: Last 2 years Personal tax return supported by: latest single year ATO notice of assessment (whilst it is preferable to hold all pages of the ATO NOA, the minimum requirement is for page 1 (front page) of the ATO NOA to be held for Fully verified Self-employed applicant); or|

Source

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |If ATO NOA has not issued: latest Australian Tax Return lodgement extract from MyGov Portal|
|Change 8| |Updated section ‘Income verification - fully verified self-employed assessment > Fully verified 2 year average‘ Old wording: Mortgage insured: - Last 2 years Personal tax returns supported by each year's ATO Notice of Assessments (whilst preferable to hold all pages of the ATO NOA, minimum requirement is for page 1 (front page) of the ATO NOA to be held for Fully verified Self-employed applicant) and
New wording: Mortgage insured: - Last 2 years Personal tax returns supported by:
- each year's ATO Notice of Assessments (whilst it is preferable to hold all pages of the ATO NOA, the minimum requirement is for page 1 (front page) of the ATO NOA to be held for Fully verified Self-employed applicant); or
- If ATO NOA/s has not issued: latest Australian Tax Return lodgement extract from MyGov Portal
|
|Change 10|19 February 2023|Change 1 Update to wording in section 2.3.1 Allowable addbacks Old wording: Where Add-backs are being used for income assessment the broker / assessor must ensure their loan assessment notes identify the add-back being used and explain why it should be considered. Note: On loans where LMI is required and add-backs other than Interest, Leasing and Hire purchase are required to meet servicing, such proposals must be referred to the Mortgage Insurer. New wording: Where Add-backs are being used for income assessment the broker / assessor must ensure their loan assessment notes identify the add-back being used and explain why it should be considered. Note: On loans where LMI is required and add-backs other than Depreciation, Interest, Leasing and Hire purchase are required to meet servicing, such proposals must be referred to the Mortgage Insurer.|
| | |Change 2<br/>Update to content in section 2.3.2 Depreciation (mortgage insured applications)<br/>Old wording:<br/><br/>What % can I use|When|What do I need to do|
|100%|The business type must be a sole trader, partnership or company; and|Non-mortgage insured applications|

Source

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |The depreciated assets are under finance and a corresponding liability is evident on the balance sheet. We permit the addback in this instance because if at a future point in time the asset requires renewal, the applicant may also renew the debt and in our serviceability assessment we have included the existing commitment. Mortgage insured applications same as non-mortgage insured applications plus, application will be outside of a lender's authority to approve. Application must be referred to the Mortgage insurer for consideration. Where the remainder of the application is within your authority you can refer direct to the Mortgage Insurer. Where the remainder of the application contains either Bank policy exceptions or exceeds your authority, the application must first be referred to Credit. Mortgage insurer may choose to allow the use of depreciation in whole or part for serviceability assessment.|
| | |The business type must be a sole trader, partnership or company; and The depreciation is in respect of an income producing asset (that is not under finance) and that asset is required to be maintained/updated to ensure continuance of the income.|

Depreciation addback percentage which can be used may vary between 0% - 100%. Depreciation addback must be adjusted in line with personal use percentage. The assets being depreciated: are being used for personal purposes and if so, the percentage used for personal and business use (depreciation addback percentage cannot exceed the business use percentage) and the lifespan of these assets and whether these are integral to the daily operation of the business.

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000708

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |Record the outcome of the discussions in loan assessment notes and Upload to OBP any supporting documentation such as a depreciation schedule|
| | |Mortgage insured applications same as non-mortgage insured applications plus, application will be outside of an assessor / lenders authority to approve. Application must be referred to the Mortgage insurer for consideration. Where the remainder of the application is within your authority you can refer direct to the Mortgage Insurer. Where the remainder of the application contains a policy exception or exceeds your authority, the application must first be referred to Credit.|
| | |Mortgage insurer may choose to allow the use of depreciation in whole or part for serviceability assessment|

New wording

|What % can I use|When|What do I need to do|
|---|---|---|
|100%|The business type must be a sole trader, partnership or company; and The depreciated assets are|Non-mortgage insured applications Where OBP or the Company / Trust income calculator is the assessment tool: ensure a commitment has been loaded (refer to link|

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |under Commitments policy for finance and a corresponding liability is evident on the balance sheet. Mortgage insured applications same as non-mortgage insured|
| | |applications We permit the addback in this instance because if at a future point in time the asset requires renewal, the applicant may also renew the debt and in our serviceability assessment we have included the existing commitment|
| | |We permit the addback in this instance because if at a future point in time the asset requires renewal, the applicant may also renew the debt and in our serviceability assessment we have included the existing commitment|
| | |applications plus, application will be outside of a lenders authority to approve. Application must be referred to Credit for consideration. Credit may choose to allow the use of depreciation in whole or part for serviceability assessment|

The business type must be a sole trader, partnership or company; and The depreciation is in respect of an income producing asset (that is not under finance) and that asset is required to be maintained / updated to ensure continuance of the income.

Examples of this would include: Taxi operators applying depreciation on their cab. Truck operators depreciating their truck/s. Excavation / Earthmoving

Non-mortgage insured applications
You must: contact pe applicant and obtain additional information to understand if pe assets being depreciated: are being used for personal purposes and if so, pe percentage used for personal and business use (depreciation addback percentage cannot exceed pe business use percentage) and pe lifespan of pese assets and wheper pese are integral to pe daily operation of pe business and Record pe outcome of pe discussions in loan assessment notes and Upload to OBP any supporting documentation such as a depreciation schedule

Mortgage insured applications
Depreciation addback percentage which can be used may vary between 0% - 100% Depreciation addback must be adjusted in line wip personal use percentage

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000708

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |operators applying depreciation on machinery. Restaurant equipment / furnishings or fit out. In these types of scenarios, the depreciation item claimed should not be added back, as the equipment itself will require maintenance and / or replacement at some point, hence funds will need to be apportioned / set aside to be able to do this. Change 3 Update the wording in section 2.1.1 Applications by income source Old wording Income Scenario Additional requirements Applicant has PAYG income from a Business wholly or partially owned by their spouse New wording Income Scenario Additional requirements Applicant has PAYG income from a Business wholly or partially owned by their spouse, and The applicant’s spouse is a co-borrower / income guarantor The applicant may be assessed as: PAYG applicant as per Verifying income > Rules > Family employee, or The same as a self-employed applicant, where assessed using the same self-employed income|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000708

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |Applicant has PAYG income from a Business wholly or partially owned by their spouse, and The applicant’s spouse is not a co-borrower / income guarantor or assessed under Apportioned Household Expenses and Commitments, on the new loan|
|Change 4|Updated wording in section ‘2.5 Accountants letter’|Old wording: Where a letter / email from the business’s accountant is permitted for use as a supporting document, it must contain all of the below: The applicant must be assessed as: PAYG applicant as per Verifying income > Rules > Family employee|
|Assessment method| |Applicant is self-employed and no income from the related business / self-employed entity is used towards serviceability and Business / self-employed entity is trading. Business income includes the below income types, where the business may be wholly or partially owned by the applicant. Directors fees, Dividends, PAYG (from the business), Undistributed company profit|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000708

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|Trust distributions|Partnership distributions|Confirm that the business / entity(s) in question: - Is / are trading profitably; and
- Have sufficient current earnings to meet their debts (after all expenses including but not limited to the principal component / fees of any debts, paying wages, superannuation and taxation obligations) without drawing on any retained prior year profits or proceeds, capital gain sale of business assets or reliance on any once off grant, boost payment (e.g., COVID etc); and
- There is no reliance on any income from the applicants (borrower, guarantor, or Apportioned shared commitment) by the business including where there are loans from applicants evident in borrower financial information already provided.
|
|Sole trader net profit|Personal services income| |

Business / self-employed entity does not trade and has no current or deferred commitments identified.
Entity has an ‘active’ ABN.

Applicant is self-employed
Adhere to pe standards outlined in Documents standards policy:
- Accountants letter
- Accountants email advice

Confirmation of the applicant’s name and any associated entity(s) names, including ABN’s to which the declaration applies.

Confirm that the Accountant was the accountant for the business if it previously traded.

Confirm the date the business ceased trading, or if the business has never traded the accountant must confirm this.

Confirm the business is not trading & that the business has no current or deferred commitments / liabilities.

Adhere to the standards outlined in Documents standards policy:

- Accountants letter
- Accountants email advice

Confirmation that the Accountant has completed the most recent / latest year’s tax returns; and

Detail all liabilities the entity has; and

Confirm the entity does not trade or operate as a business in any capacity or any turnover amount; and

Specifically confirm that financials / profit loss & balance sheets are not prepared.

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |entity. for the entity.|
| | |Self-employed income from the non-trading entity includes the below types, where the entity may be wholly or partially owned by the applicant:|
| | |- Directors fees|
| | |- Dividends|
| | |- Undistributed company profit|
| | |- Trust distributions|
| | |- Partnership distributions|
| | |Action required|
| | |Following the receipt of the Accountant’s letter or Accountants email advice, Lenders / Assessors must in all cases:|
| | |- Verify the Accountant’s or Accounting firm’s tax agent / BAS agent registration status is current, using https://www.tpb.gov.au/registrations_search. Upload to OBP the search result. The Tax Practitioner Board (TPB) number may be required to perform this search, so it is preferable for the TPB Number be included on the Accountant Letter / email, however, this is not mandatory provided the registration can still be validated as current via the TPB website above.|
| | |- Validate that the letter has addressed all of the above requirements.|
| | |- If the letter does not address all of the above criteria or when tax returns / financials for the entity are held the letter is unacceptable and cannot be used.|
| | |New wording|
| | |Where a letter / email from the business’s accountant is permitted for use as a supporting document, it must contain all of the below:|
| | |Assessment method|
| | |Applicant is self-employed and no income from the related business / self-employed entity is used towards serviceability and Business / self-|

employed

Adhere to the standards outlined in Documents standards policy:

- Accountants letter
- Accountants email advice

Confirm:

- That the Accountant has completed the most recent / latest year’s tax returns and / or associated financial

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|employed entity is trading| |Business income includes the below income types, where the business may be wholly or partially owned by the applicant.|
| | |Directors fees|
| | |Dividends|
| | |PAYG (from the business)|
| | |Undistributed company profit|
| | |Trust distributions|
| | |Partnership distributions|
| | |Sole trader net profit|
| | |Personal services income|
| | | |
| | |Business / self-employed entity with an active ABN, where:|
| | |The entity does not trade or has never traded, and|
| | |Has no current or deferred commitments|
| | | |
| | |Adhere to the standards outlined in policy Documents standards policy:|
| | |Accountants letter|
| | |Accountants email advice|
| | |Confirm:|
| | |That they are the applicant’s Accountant and have completed the most recent / latest year’s personal and/or business tax returns, where other trading entity(s) held|
| | |The applicant’s associated entity(s) names and ABN’s to which the statements for the relevant entities subject to the declaration, or|
| | |Where the business has only recently commenced (within the current financial year) the accountant must confirm:|
| | |The date the business commenced, and|
| | |How long they have been acting for the applicant, and|
| | |That they have been completing the applicant’s BAS since the business commenced, where BAS (partial or full quarter) has been required to have been lodged.|
| | |Note: If the accountant has not completed the tax returns / financials or BAS, the accountant will have limited financial understanding of the business and the accountant’s letter cannot be used.|
| | |Confirm that the business / entity(s):|
| | |Is / are trading profitably; and|
| | |Has sufficient current earnings from recurring income to meet their ongoing debts (i.e. after all expenses including but not limited to the principal component / fees of any debts, paying wages, superannuation and taxation obligations, without drawing on any retained prior year profits or proceeds, capital gain sale of business assets or reliance on any once off grant, boost payment e.g., COVID etc); and|
| | |There is no reliance on any income from the applicants (borrower, guarantor, or Apportioned shared commitment) by the business including where there are loans from applicants evident in borrower financial information held, where applicable.|
| | |https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000708|

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |The business has no current or deferred commitments / liabilities. Applicant is self-employed and self-employed entity is a non-trading entity or investment holding vehicle and only the tax returns for the entity are held. Financials / profit loss and balance sheets are not completed for the entity. Self-employed income from the non-trading entity includes the below types, where the entity may be wholly or partially owned by the applicant: Directors fees, Dividends, Undistributed company profit, Trust distributions, Partnership distributions.|
| | |Action required: Following the receipt of the Accountant’s letter or Accountants email advice, Lenders / Assessors must in all cases: Verify the Accountant’s or Accounting firm’s tax agent / BAS agent registration status is current, using https://www.tpb.gov.au/registrations_search. Upload to OBP the search result. The Tax Practitioner Board (TPB) number may be required to perform this search, so it is preferable for the TPB Number be included on the Accountant Letter / email, however, this is not mandatory provided the registration can still be validated as current via the TPB website above. Validate that the letter has addressed all of the above requirements. If the letter does not address all of the above criteria or when tax returns / financials for the entity are held the letter is unacceptable and cannot be used.|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000708

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|11|26 March 2023|Change 1 Section 2.1 has been updated to “Identifying and Assessing self-employed applications” – and content added from Verifying Income Chapter re-write: Where the applicant earns PAYG income (or other supplementary income) but also has a directorship 1 or ABN for a business, and the applicant is not being assessed under Fast Track, Lenders / Assessors are required to identify how the applicant is related to the business and if the applicant is a director and / or shareholder. Where the applicant is a director and / or shareholder, further investigation of the business is to be completed (even where income from the business is not being used for serviceability assessment) to establish the below: - When the applicant became a director;
- The percentage of shareholding;
- If the business is trading / non-trading; and
- If the business is profitable or able to able to service it's own commitments
Where the applicant is either an Independent director or an Executive director they are not considered to be the business owner and do not need to be assessed as a self-employed applicant. Independent director: A director that does not have a vested interest i.e. they are not a shareholder and the directorship is not held in a business that is owned (shareholding > 0%) or controlled (directorship) by a spouse or family member (e.g. child or parent) or a subsidiary entity of the director or director's spouse / family member. Executive director: A director that does have a vested interest (a minor % shareholding of <=5%) however limited to also being an independent PAYG employee. E.g. the CEO of Westpac is a director but also an independent PAYG employee (PAYG employee of a business that is not their own business). For further information about how to investigate directorships refer to Completing ABN, business name or company searches.|
|12|21 May 2023|Change 1 Update to “Rental income - fully verified self-employed assessment”. Scenario table 3 and 4 updated to show where Property Expense floor will not be used in calculations as expense already captured and verified from Tax return Net Profit|
| | |Change 2 Throughout document, redirected references and links from ‘Validation of information provided by the customer’ policy chapter to ‘Loan Application and Approval > Validation of information provided by the customer’. Housekeeping change only|

Link to original document

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|13|2 July 2023|Update to “Accountants Letter” to simplify and re-order content to appear above the table. There has been no change to policy intent or requirements|
|14|20 August 2023|Fast Track clarification Added to: Eligibility criteria – Fast track self-employed assessment The ATO Notice of assessments used must be from the period of applicants self-employment. Added to: Exclusion criteria – Fast track self-employed assessment ATO Notice of assessments used do not match applicants time as self-employed.|
|15|19 November 2023|Complete re-write including but not limited to: Changes to addbacks Introduction of Simple Solvency Check Changes to Exceptions to providing 2 years tax returns / financials Definition of self-employed Customer relationship to the entity Defining what loan origination system and income assessment tool can be used when assessing self-employed customers under this policy.|
|16|19 November 2023|Chapter heading changed form Self-Employed Applicants to Self-Employed Customers|
|17|30 June 2024|Clarification within the “Rental income - latest year and 2 year average methods” table. Added a note to state scenarios 3-7 must apply when the property is owned by an individual but is being accounted for in the partnership or trust return.|

Attachments

- 03.16 2.1.3 Company title example.pdf
- 03.16 Non-trading entity verified by ABN search.pdf

Comment on this policy

Comment on this policy

Rate this policy

Published: 30/06/2024

Link to the policy