# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Home | View Westpac Consumer Mortgages OBP Credit Policies | Contact Us

Loan Application and Approval

This policy contains commercially sensitive and confidential information. No part should be made available in any form whether printed, electronic or otherwise, outside the Westpac Group without approval from Westpac Legal or Regulatory affairs. This document is an UNCONTROLLED copy and is subject to change without prior notification. It is only valid at the date of extract.

# Table of contents

1. About pis policy
1.1 Why pis policy
2 Rules you must apply
2.1 Loan amount including costs
2.1.1 Bridging Loans
2.1.2 Interest only in advance (IOA) loans
2.2 Customer Interview
2.3 Customers Experiencing Vulnerability
2.4 In Principle Approval (IPA)
2.4.1 In Principle Approval (IPA) / Conditional Approval Validity period
2.5 Full application
2.6 Responsible Lending Start Date
2.7 Validation of information provided by pe customer
2.7.1 Reviewing customer provided information
2.7 Currency of Verification
2.8 Acknowledgments, confirmations and consents (for 1st and 3rd party channel) or Privacy Statement and oper acknowledgements (for digital applications) (Consent Form)
2.9 Pipeline Aupority Policy
2.9.1 Pipeline Aupority Eligibility
2.10 Playback Form
2.11 Power of Attorney/Administration Order
2.12 Business Purpose Declaration
2.13 Loan Expiry Types and Rules
3. Comprehensive Credit Report (CCR) mismatch

# About this policy

1.1 Why this policy

The purpose of this policy is to provide an overview of: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000698

Costs which can be included in the loan amount:

- Consumer mortgage application forms and declarations
- Power of Attorney rules
- Business lending customer rules

Rules relating to:

- Validating information provided by the customer
- The currency of completed verification activities
- The age of verification documents
- Expiry dates associated with the consumer mortgage application

If the loan application requires mortgage insurance, refer to Lenders Mortgage Insurance where required.

Rules you must apply:

Note: Mortgage brokers are unable to submit their own applications i.e., where the finance broker submitting the application is also one of the applicants. Brokers are still able to submit loans for their family (as long as they are not an applicant) and they are also able to have another finance broker within their group submit a loan on their behalf.

Loan Amount-including costs:

Costs associated with the purchase of the collateral (e.g. legal fees and stamp duty) can be included in the loan amount, providing the maximum lending value ratio is not exceeded.

Bridging Loans:

|Sale Equity Rule|85% of the security collateral value of the existing property(s) to be sold|
|---|---|
|This rule does not apply to any end debt.|Also refer to ‘Security Collateral Value Assessment’ policy|

Where more than one security collateral is to be sold:

- Full net proceeds (including purchaser's deposit paid) must always be received to the Bridging Loan
- Remaining Bridging Loan debt against the security collateral value of the remaining property(s) to be sold cannot exceed the Sale Equity Rule
- Overall LVR must comply with Lending Value Ratio (LVR) policy for Bridging Loans

Also refer to Policy Chapter 06.02 Bridging Loan

Interest only in advance (IOA) loans:

The initial amount of prepaid interest cannot be added to the loan amount. The borrower is to provide this amount from their own funds.

Customer Interview:

The interview process is to be carried out without the presence of a third party, i.e. must be between the broker and applicant(s) / guarantor(s) only. A formal face to face interview should be completed with the loan applicant(s) or guarantor(s), prior to acceptance of the loan offer.

Source

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

2.3 Customers Experiencing Vulnerability
Refer to Eligibility >Customers Experiencing Vulnerability policy

2.4 In Principle Approval (IPA)
In Principle Approval (IPA) is an application type which seeks 'Conditional Approval' only. Verification of supporting documentation and security collateral assessment is not mandatory. Consent forms and verification of identity (VOI) must be completed prior to ‘Review and Submit’ being undertaken for an IPA. Also see:
- Acknowledgments, confirmations and consents (for 1st and 3rd party channel) or Privacy Statement and oper acknowledgements (for digital applications) (Consent Form)
- Playback form
- Responsible Lending Start Date

When a borrower elects to proceed with the consumer mortgage application, the IPA needs to be converted to a ‘full consumer mortgage application’.

Note: You cannot convert a full application back to an IPA.

2.4.1 In Principle Approval (IPA) / Conditional Approval Validity period
The in principle approval (conditional approval) letter or notification has a validity period of 90 days from pe most recent application Review and Submit date (bop IPA and Full application stage). The expiry period ends eiper when pe customer mortgage application is unconditionally approved, or pe consumer mortgage application is edited and re-assessed resulting in a new in principle approval (conditional approval).

2.5 Full application
A Full consumer mortgage application is an application type which seeks 'Formal Approval' (Unconditional Approval). An application may be created as a ‘full application’ or may be converted from an IPA to a ‘full application’. Verification of supporting documentation and security assessment is mandatory for Full Applications. Consent forms and verification of identity (VOI) must be completed prior to ‘Review and Submit’ being undertaken for a full application. Also see:
- Acknowledgments, confirmations and consents (for 1st and 3rd party channel) or Privacy Statement and oper acknowledgements (for digital applications) (Consent Form)
- Playback Form
- Responsible Lending Start Date

2.6 Responsible Lending Start Date
The Responsible Lending Start Date is used to determine if a verification document complies wip pe ‘maximum age’ policy. Refer to:
- ‘Loan Expiry Types’ and rules for pe ‘Responsible Lending Start Date’
- Refer to ‘Document Standards’ for pe maximum age of verification documents

Refer to: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000698

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Purpose|Responsible Lending scrutiny check and helps us ensure an accurate loan assessment.|
|---|---|
|Applicable to|new loan|
| |loan increase|
| |loan variation activity requiring a serviceability assessment|
|Policy exclusion|This policy does not apply to a Bridging ICAP loan with no end debt|

Associated policies:

- Commitments
- Guarantees
- Living Expenses
- Serviceability assessment
- If the application requires mortgage insurance, where required refer to: Lenders Mortgage Insurance

Reviewing customer provided information

|Conflicts to look for|What to review|Action required|
|---|---|---|
|Commitments:|Any commitment: that is undisclosed|The last three months of internal account transactions (excluding non Flexi WBC Personal Loans) Supporting documents used to comply with normal loan assessment|
| |Where a conflict is identified|With the exception of outgoing child support (maintenance) payments, outgoing alimony (spousal support) and outgoing rent / board, it is not a requirement to obtain further supporting documents to specifically validate expense related outgoings.|
| |Clarify the conflicts| |

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000698

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Undisclosed or inconsistent:|Undisclosed or inconsistent:|Other:|
|---|---|---|
|outgoing child support (maintenance) payments|Owner Occupied Primary Residence Land Tax, Body Corp and Strata Fees.|Potential conflicts|
|outgoing alimony (spousal support)|Secondary Residence / Holiday Home Costs (including Insurance)| |
|outgoing ongoing rent or board|dependants related living expenses such as childcare fees and education costs| |
| |life, health, sickness and personal accident insurance living expenses| |

Refer to Commitments policy for details of how to verify commitments

1. Review the Comprehensive Credit Bureau report (CCR) for new loans and loan increases only.
2. Amend or update the application to reflect the information found. Re-complete assessments and re-run credit decision if required. If serviceability is still met, continue with application processing.
3. Where serviceability is not met with the updated information, clarify any conflicts with the applicant(s) and either further update or withdraw the application.
4. Enter application comments detailing any amendments made to the application and/or the outcome of all related customer discussions. This will provide an audit trail and prevent rework.
5. Enter a final comment in the application confirming the account review activity has been completed.

For more information, visit https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000698

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Relating to declared:

- Marital status
- Number of dependants
- Employment type / mode
- Citizenship status

Where an individual tax return is held, and the property costs are listed in the rental schedule, review the actual costs (other than interest, depreciation, and once off capital expenses).

|Living Expenses:|Investment property costs|
|---|---|
|Undisclosed or inconsistent:|Review the actual costs (other than interest, depreciation, and once off capital expenses).|

# Internal

For Westpac brand, St George Bank Group, and RAMS accounts are considered to be external.

# 2.8 Currency of Verification

Verifications completed in the consumer mortgage application remain current until any one or more of the following occur:

- Any ‘loan expiry’ type occurs. Refer to ‘Loan Expiry Types and Rules’
- Advice is received that information upon which the verification was based has changed (e.g. income details change).

# 2.9 Pipeline Authority Policy

Purpose: This policy identifies the standards for assessing an IPA or full application under a prior (old) credit policy

Exclusions: This policy does not need to be followed if the application meets the current (new) policy.

Applicable to: Consumer mortgage applications where a borrower is seeking any of the following:

- New loan
- Loan increase

# 2.9.1 Eligibility

Link to more information

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

An IPA or Full application can be assessed under prior (old) policy, if it complies with the table below. Applications that do not meet the rules may be referred to Credit for override consideration where justified. E.g. process errors. If LMI is applicable, LMI Underwriter approval (DUA4) will be required. If ‘non-standard’ pipeline condition/s apply to a specific policy change, they will be documented in the related change communication.

# Pipeline Eligibility Rules

|Scenario|Application stage|Applicable to|Can be assessed under old (prior) policy if:|
|---|---|---|---|
|1|A ‘Review and Submit’ (RnS) decision had not previously occurred|Third Party (Broker) applications only|- The application met the prior (old) credit policy, but now fails the current (new) policy; and
- The Apply Online (AOL) submission date was no more than 90 days prior to the policy change date;
- AND one of the below apply: - The system input change (in the Third Party originations system or OBP) was triggered by a standard validation activity, to align input with: - supporting documents provided by the finance broker at the time the application is submitted; or
- the internally sourced credit bureau report; or
- an internal system extract or enquiry (Westpac or St.George Bank Group)
|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000698

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

refer Document standards

Warning: Refer to Loan Expiry Types and Rules for information regarding loan re-assessment requirements (e.g. Responsible Lending Expiry) which override this pipeline policy. OR No Material changes have occurred since the AOL submission date

The application met the prior (old) credit policy, but now fails current (new) policy, and:

- A ‘Review and Submit’ (RnS) – First Party and Third Party applications decision had previously occurred
- No more than 90 days prior to the policy change date; and
- No Material changes have occurred since the RnS ‘passed’ date

Where the application met the prior (old) credit policy, but now fails the current (new) policy due to the Household Expenditure Measure (HEM) table being updated, the previous HEM table can be used.

Material Changes

For Mortgage insured and Non-mortgage insured applications:

- Assets are decreased

Some examples:

- Title search indicates an asset is not owned

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000698

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Borrower/s or guarantor/s – are deleted or added
Additional borrower is added to application
A borrower becomes a guarantor or guarantor becomes a borrower
Credit bureau: A new decline or refer decision is received related to credit bureau default or bankruptcy
Initial application shows no defaults. At a decision run after pe policy change, borrower one now has a Telstra default for $120
Employment mode is changed from full time to casual (even if on pe same income)
Borrower 1 and 2 have increased rental outgo
Borrower 2 has an existing loan (not pe loan being processed) and pe repayments are increased for pat loan
Expenses, outgoings or existing loan repayments are increased
Income is reduced
Allowable social security income removed as it does not meet social security income requirements due to pe age of pe dependants
Liabilities are increased (internal or external)
Applicant pree has a new credit card added
Security collateral is added or removed

Applies to: Link

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Full applications|Security collateral 'A'.|
|---|---|
|IPAs where the security had been previously identified|After receiving an unsatisfactory building inspection report, the purchase contract for 'A' is cancelled. The borrower offers a new Security property 'B'.|

Security collateral is added or removed

Applies to: IPA where the security had not been previously identified

When the security collateral is identified and:

- it is unacceptable; or
- the IPA to Full application contains another 'Material Change' listed in this table

Some examples:

The initial application was an IPA for a loan of $400k and purchase of $500k but the actual security address had not been identified. The borrower has now found a property, and it is on the unacceptable Security Development Register list.

For Non-Mortgage insured applications:

Loan amount is increased, and:

- the increase is greater than 10% of the original loan amount, or
- the increase is not greater than 10% of the original loan amount but the increased loan amount would have failed serviceability on the prior (old) policy

Some examples:

The initial application was an In Principle Approval (IPA) for a loan of $400k and purchase of $500k. The borrower has now found a property costing more at $550k and requires a loan for $441k (10.25% increase). If the loan was increased to $440k this would be non-material as the increase is =10% (not greater).

For mortgage insured applications:

Some examples:

Link to more information

Loan amount is increased

Any loan amount increase

Application is lodged for a refinance of an existing debt. The borrower estimates that the property is valued at $500k and based on the estimate our LVR is 80%. When the valuation is completed the customer estimate was high and the actual value of the property came in at $470k. LVR has increased to 85% and now LMI is required.

2.10 Acknowledgments, confirmations and consents (for 1st and 3rd party channel) or Privacy Statement and oper acknowledgements (for digital applications) (Consent Form)
All consumer mortgage applications require a Consent Form to be signed and dated or accepted digitally by pe applicants (and guarantors, if any), prior to credit decisioning.
Also refer to Power of Attorney/Administration order where pis applies to pe application.

2.11 Playback Form
The Playback Form has been designed to provide pe borrower's wip an overview of pe information captured including pe credit assessment wipin peir consumer mortgage application.
Upon submission of a consumer mortgage application for assessment (In principle approval (IPA) and Full Applications), a copy of pe Playback Form is to be provided to pe borrower's by pe Bank.
This information is available online in pe borrower’s application tracker via Internet Banking (once registered) and can also be provided physically where needed.
The playback form is also accepted as being accurate by pe borrower as part of pe loan offer document pack.

2.12 Power of Attorney/Administration Order
Where a Power of Attorney (POA) or Administration Order is in place pe Attorney/Administrator must act in pe best interests of pe donor (person giving pe Power of Attorney) and not in pe best interests of pemselves.
The Bank’s obligations under The Privacy Act advises pat an Attorney cannot sign or digitally accept pe Consent Forms on behalf of a borrower / donor where pe borrower

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Type of authority|Documents that can be signed under authority|Special Conditions|
|---|---|---|
|General Power of Attorney (POA)|Loan Contract Variation Agreement Mortgage Agreement Guarantee|Cannot be used when the donor has a cognitive impairment (refer to Eligibility>Customers Experiencing Vulnerability) POA document must: either specifically grant authority for financial matters that include to buy, sell or mortgage real estate or grant authority over all dealings without excluding real estate and/or entering loans not be relied upon where a customer has lost capacity only be considered in extenuating circumstances when the donor is not available, e.g. donor is overseas, indisposed and the Bank is unable to send documents electronically to sign. If POA is being used to sign a mortgage agreement, the POA must be registered in the same state as the security property.|
|Enduring Power of Attorney (POA):|Loan Contract Variation Agreement Mortgage Agreement Guarantee Contract Loan Authority|When the donor has a cognitive impairment, refer to next row of this table Enduring Power of Attorney: when borrower or guarantor no longer has capacity / cognitive function The POA document must: either specifically grant authority for financial matters|

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000698

Enduring Power of Attorney (POA):

When borrower or guarantor no longer has capacity / cognitive function and no Administration Order has been made
Includes:
- Mortgage Agreement
- Guarantee Contract
- Loan aupority (includes direct debit, surplus contribution, additional payment etc)

Requirements:

- Must specifically grant authority for financial matters that include buying, selling, or mortgaging real estate
- Must grant authority over all dealings without excluding real estate and/or entering loans
- The date the POA document was signed must be prior to loss of cognitive ability
- If POA is being used to sign a mortgage agreement, the POA must be registered in the same state as the security property

Administration Order:

When borrower or guarantor no longer has capacity / cognitive function
Includes:
- Consent Form
- Loan Contract Variation Agreement
- Mortgage Agreement Guarantee Contract
- Loan aupority (includes direct debit, surplus contribution, additional payment etc)

Requirements:

- An Administration Order must either grant authority over all of the financial affairs of the donor or specifically grant authority over a list of financial matters that includes buying/selling property

Additional Information:

- POA must not contain a limitation that it only takes effect on loss of capacity
- POA may only be considered in extenuating circumstances when the donor is not available (e.g., overseas, indisposed) and the Bank is unable to send documents electronically to sign

You will also need to refer to Consent Form, Loan Contract Variation Agreement, and Eligibility>Customers Experiencing Vulnerability.

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

2.13 Business Purpose Declaration

If the loan purpose established is wholly or predominantly (i.e. more than or equal to 50%) for business purposes then it is not eligible for a consumer product and must be referred to Business banking. Refer to Eligibility.

It is the Broker or Assessor's responsibility to determine whether a loan agreement is to be regulated or not under the National Credit Code. This is determined from loan purpose (not the collateral/s offered to support the loan).

As a guide the following questions may be used to assist Brokers or Assessors in determining whether the loan is regulated or not under NCC:

- Is this loan in a Company Name? (If YES, never regulate.)
- Will another property be the principal place of residence?
- Are the loan funds to be used for any business purposes and / or investment purposes other than investment in residential property?
- Are the loan funds to be used wholly or predominantly for business purpose and /or investment purposes other than investing in residential property?

Where the answer to questions 1, 3-4 inclusive is YES, the loan may be unregulated.

2.14 Loan Expiry Types and Rules

The below expiry dates apply to loan applications

|Loan Expiry Type|Start Date|Expiry Occurs when|If expiry occurs|
|---|---|---|---|
|Responsible Lending|• First Apply Online (AOL) submission date (as either an IPA or Full Application), or|Loan - where the purchase is residential property and the credit will be secured by a mortgage over the same residential collateral:|If the expiry period lapses, the consumer mortgage application will be forced to be edited. The assessor must advise the broker to resubmit the application in AOL.|
| |• If the expiry period has lapsed:|The first OBP ‘Review and Submit’ date following the expiry|The expiry period ends when the borrower has signed and returned their loan offer. The expiry period is 120 calendar days from the Start Date. In the 120-day period prior to the end date, Broker must ensure that all the details provided within the application are reconfirmed with borrower prior to re-submission. Upon re-submitting the application, the RL expiry period will be reset, and documents|

Source

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

The following needs to must be re-verified.

- Reasonable inquiries regarding the customer’s requirements and objectives and financial situation
- Reasonable steps to verify the borrower’s financial situation
- An unsuitability assessment for the credit contract including a credit assessment

Verification

Verification tasks must be completed and updated / new verification documentation is required where:

- The relevant verification document has ‘expired’, i.e. it does not meet the ‘maximum age’ policy against the new Responsible Lending Start Date

Loan – other

The expiry period ends when the customer has signed and returned their loan offer. The expiry period is 90 calendar days from the Start Date.

In the 90-day period prior to the end date, the following needs to have occurred:

- Reasonable inquiries regarding the customer’s requirements and objectives and financial situation
- Reasonable steps to verify the borrower’s financial situation
- An unsuitability assessment for the credit contract including a credit assessment

Loan Drawdown

Loan Offer generated date

For single draw loans: Loan not drawn within 180 days of the Start Date.

For Progress Draw

Loan Offer

For Progress Draw

Link to more information

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Loans:|Initial draw down has not occurred within 12 months of the Start Date.|
|---|---|
|Loan Offer Expiry|The loan offer prints an expiry period of 14 days from the date of generation. The purpose of this expiry is to ensure it is actioned in a timely manner. If the RL expiry date is sooner than the loan offer 14 day expiry period, the loan offer will expire in line with the RL expiry date. The consumer mortgage application must be re-submitted and re-assessed with a new loan offer generated.|

# Comprehensive Credit Report (CCR) Mismatch

Where a mismatch is identified during manual review of the report, further investigation and action is required. For specific scenarios, refer to the table below:

|Scenario|Action|Additional requirements|
|---|---|---|
|The applicant advises the facility has been closed but the CCR still shows the account as open.|Evidence that the account has been closed must be obtained prior to formal approval. Refer to Serviceability assessment > Rules > Amended current commitment|Enter application comments detailing the outcome of all related customer discussions|
|The applicant advises the facility has been closed.|Further enquires are to be made with the applicant.|Enter application comments detailing the outcome of all related|

For more information, visit: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000698

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Scenario|Condition|Action|
|---|---|---|
|1|The CCR shows an open facility that the borrower forgot and did not declare|Where the CCR contains: a maximum of one undisclosed / undeclared debt (facility) per application and the debt is either a Credit Card or an Overdraft (unsecured / non-mortgage) and the current months repayment history status* displays a 0 (zero) refer to and follow the additional requirements.|
| | |Re-complete serviceability assessments as per Serviceability Assessment > Commitments > Verifying customer commitments|
| | |Re-run credit decision if required|
| | |Where serviceability is met with the additional commitment included, proceed with application processing.|
| | |Note: No referral to the applicant is required. Inclusion of the additional commitment will result in a more conservative serviceability assessment outcome.|
|2|The CCR shows the account is still open as they have not formally closed the facility|If the applicant wants to retain the facility, then the commitment is to be included in the serviceability assessment. Verify the details of the commitment as per Commitments > Verifying customer commitments|
| | |If the applicant does not want to retain the facility, they will need to provide evidence the facility has been closed as per Scenario 1|

* Repayment history on CCR appears from right to left. Right = current month at the time the report was generated (most recent month) to oldest month (being month 24). For more information about repayment history status refer to Commitments policy > On CCR – Repayment history criteria

If serviceability is not met with the additional commitment included, proceed with application processing.

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Met with the additional commitment included further enquires are to be made with the applicant:

If the applicant wants to retain the facility, then the commitment is to be included in the serviceability assessment (refer to Scenario 2 &gt; Additional requirements)

If the applicant does not want to retain the facility, they will need to provide evidence the facility has been closed. Evidence must be obtained prior to formal approval (refer to Scenario 1 Action and Additional requirements)

|Where the CCR contains:|Record in application notes the outcome of all related customer discussions|
|---|---|
|> 1 undisclosed / undeclared Credit card or Overdraft (unsecured / non-mortgage); or| |
|The Credit Card or an Overdraft (unsecured / non-mortgage) current months repayment history status does not display a 0 (zero); or| |
|The undisclosed / undeclared debt (facility) is not a credit card or overdraft (unsecured / non-mortgage)| |

Further enquires are to be made with the applicant:

If the applicant wants to retain the facility, then the commitment is to be included in the serviceability assessment. Verify the details of the

Link to Source

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Scenario|Action|
|---|---|
|If the applicant does not want to retain the facility|Provide evidence the facility has been closed as per Scenario 1|
|Where the applicant declared limit is > the CCR limit and serviceability is able to be demonstrated based on the higher customer declared limit.|This is an allowable variance as per the Commitments policy > Allowable Variances. You may rest on the customer declared limit.|
|The CCR evidences a lower limit than the value entered into the application / used for the monthly repayment calculation.|Where the applicant declared limit is > the CCR limit and serviceability is not able to be demonstrated based on the higher customer declared limit.|
|The CCR evidences a lower limit than the value entered into the application / used for the monthly repayment calculation.|Unable to rest on the CCR limit. Obtain additional supporting documentation to verify the actual limit.|

Enter application comments detailing the outcome of all related customer discussions.

Verify the details of the commitment as per:

Commitments Serviceability assessment > Assessing commitments > payment amount used for serviceability

Amend or update the application to reflect the verified position.

Re-complete serviceability

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000698

19/26

The CCR evidences a higher limit than the value entered into the application / used for the monthly repayment calculation.

|Scenario|Action|
|---|---|
|Where the applicant declared limit is &lt; the CCR limit and serviceability is able to be demonstrated based on the higher CCR limit|This is an allowable variance as per the Commitments policy &gt; Allowable Variances. You may rest on the CCR limit.|
|Where the applicant declared limit is &lt; the CCR limit and serviceability is not able to be demonstrated based on the higher CCR limit.|Unable to rest on applicant declared limit or CCR limit. Obtain additional supporting documentation to verify the actual limit.|

Note: applicant may have recently decreased the limit and it is not yet evident on credit bureau report. Re-complete serviceability assessments, and re-run credit decision if required.

The applicant declares a facility but it does not appear on the CCR as an open facility.

Action
Obtain an alternate supporting documentation to verify pe customer declared commitment

Verify the details of the commitment as per Commitments Serviceability assessment > Assessing commitments > payment amount used for serviceability.

The CCR shows the account as closed.

9
The applicant continues to make payments to the account.
For example, a credit card may have been closed to prevent accidental redraw of available funds while the applicant is repaying the debt.

Facility is unheard of - applicant denies any knowledge of facility.

10
Application cannot proceed until issue is resolved.
The customer disputes the repayment history on the CCR or the history on the CCR is inconsistent with repayment history on another supporting document and results in the facility not demonstrating satisfactory repayment history requirements.

11
Application cannot proceed until issue is resolved.
The applicant may choose to make direct contact with the credit provider.

Change History

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000698

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|1|3 November 2021|First OBP issue online for Brokers on the OKA platform.|
|2|8 November 2021|Links updated|
|3|21 November 2021|Removed duplicated content located in 3.09 Eligibility > 3.2 Identifying a business banking client|
|4|22 May 2022|Change 1 Section ‘Full Application date’ renamed as ‘Responsible Lending Start Date’ Change to measure the maximum age of verification documents from the ‘Responsible Lending Start Date’ (previously ‘Full Application date’) Section ‘Loan Expiry Types and Rules’: - updated to include rules relating to the ‘Responsible Lending Start Date’ - updated to include rules relating to action required if expiry occurs - reformatting of existing content to improve clarity Change 2 Section ‘Conditional Approval Validity period’: - renamed ‘In Principle Approval (IPA)/ ‘Conditional Approval Validity period’-clarification only - content updated to include references to ‘in principle approval’ -clarification only Change 3 Added sections ‘In Principle Approval’ and ‘Full Application’ to provide an overview of these application types and their requirements--clarification only Change 4 Reformatting of existing content to improve clarity|
|5|21 August 2022|Change 1 Policy Standards and Procedure rewrite Change 2 Updated references to the ‘Minimum Document Standards Matrix’. The matrix has been superseded, with all matrix rules transferred into the main body of the ‘Document Standards’ chapter. Existing references have been updated to point to the ‘Document Standards’ chapter|

For more information, visit: WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|6|21 May 2023|Added new section ‘Validation of information provided by the customer’. The associated policy rules for this section have been transitioned from the (now decommissioned) ’03.26 Validation of information provided by the customer’ chapter. As part of this transition: - Existing policy rules were re-written to:
The existing policy rules ‘What to look for’ were changed: - Change from looking for:
- - Property related expenses (such as land tax, rates, strata fees, utilities and insurance) for primary and secondary residences, and investment properties
Change to looking for:
|
|7|2 July 2023|Housekeeping change only - correct spelling of dependant vs dependent Added new section ‘Pipeline Authority Policy’. The associated policy rules for this section have been transitioned from the (now decommissioned) ’04.05 Pipeline Authority Policy’ chapter. As part of this transition: - Existing policy rules were re-written to:
|
|8|8 October 2023|Updated the Review of customer provided information table to clarify what to review and action required for Investment property costs, when an individual tax return is held with property costs listed in the rental schedule.|
|9|19 November 2023|Updated section 2.2 Customer Interview wording - no change to current requirements|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000698

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|10|18 February 2024|Change 1 Updated section ‘Validation of information provided by the customer:’ From: Applicable to a servicing / variation activity requiring a serviceability assessment. To: Applicable to a loan variation activity requiring a serviceability assessment.|
|10|18 February 2024|Change 2 Minor wording update to section 2.8.1 ‘Reviewing customer provided information’ to: Make clear that living expense review includes both undisclosed and inconsistent.|
|11|7 April 2024|Change 1 Under section ‘Loan Amount’: Added sub section ‘Bridging Loans’ and relocated the below existing rules from the Bridging Loan product chapter - To ensure the Bridging Loan will clear from the net sale proceeds of the existing property, the proposed Bridging portion of the loan cannot exceed:
- Sale Equity 85% of the security collateral value of the existing property(s) to be sold
- This rule does not apply to any end debt.
- Also refer to ‘Security Collateral Value Assessment’ policy
Where more than one security collateral is to be sold: - Full net proceeds (including purchasers deposit paid) must always be received to the Bridging Loan and Remaining Bridging Loan debt against the security collateral value of the remaining property(s) to
|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000698

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
| | |The amount of the property to be sold cannot exceed the Sale Equity Rule and Overall LVR must comply with Lending Value Ratio (LVR) policy for Bridging Loans|
|Change 2| |Update to “Loan Expiry Types and Rules” Responsible Lending 3rd Party Start date has been amended: Old Wording: 3rd Party (Broker) - First Apply Online (AOL) submission date (as either an IPA or Full Application), or - If the expiry period has lapsed: The first AOL resubmission date following the expiry. New Wording: 3rd Party (Broker) - First Apply Online (AOL) submission date (as either an IPA or Full Application), or - If the expiry period has lapsed: The first OBP ‘Review and Submit’ date following the expiry|
|Change 3| |Updated section 2.7.1 Reviewing customer provided information to include the following under Commitments > Conflicts to look for: Inconsistency(s) (e.g. limit, interest rate, repayment amount) identified via internal system and/or supporting documents|
|Change 1|19 May 2024|Added the following footnote to 2.10.1 Eligibility -> Pipeline Eligibility Rules table: Where the application met the prior (old) credit policy, but now fails the current (new) policy due to the Household Expenditure Measure (HEM) table being updated, the previous HEM table can be used.|
|Change 2| |Updated 2.1.1 Bridging Loans section to include link to Policy Chapter 06.02 Relocation Loan|

Link to Policy Chapter 06.02 Relocation Loan: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000698

7/4/24, 11:03 AM WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Comment on this policy

Comment on this policy

Rate this policy Published Date 19/05/20

Link to policy