WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Home | View Westpac Consumer Mortgages OBP Credit Policies | Contact Us

03.22 Special Packages - Employee (Staff) and Contractor Home Loan

This policy contains commercially sensitive and confidential information. No part should be made available in any form whether printed, electronic or otherwise, outside the Westpac Group without approval from Westpac Legal or Regulatory affairs.*** This document is an UNCONTROLLED copy and is subject to change without prior notification. It is only valid at the date of extract. ***

Table of Contents

1. About this policy
2. Rules you must apply
3. Process to follow

1. About this policy

1.1 Why this policy?

This policy will help you identify if the Westpac Group will waive Lenders’ Mortgage Insurance (LMI) for a consumer mortgage application where the applicant(s) meet the eligibility criteria.

2. Rules you must apply

2.1 Employee (Staff) and Contractor home loan benefits

The Bank offers a range of benefits, designed to position employees and contractors as priority customers.

Eligibility

- Home Loans with Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne and BankSA only (excludes RAMS).

Must be a current permanent employee or contractor. Ex-employees are not eligible for this offer.

Must be a packaged home loan.

Not available to company and trust account holders.

Must be Standard Variable Rate or Fixed Rate loan product (excludes Portfolio, Basic, SMSF loans etc.).

No minimum loan size required.

|Allowable Variances|Conditions|
|---|---|
|Applications may be assessed to a maximum LVR of 90% without mortgage insurance.|Refer to Lenders Mortgage insurance exemption criteria table > LVR|

All other standard non-mortgage insured policies and product offerings for fully documented applications apply, including Interest Only repayment terms.

This policy must be read in conjunction with the policies and processes contained within the Credit Policy Manual and relates specifically to LMI exemption for eligible employees and contractors. This offer is not available in conjunction with any other special offers, or other packages offered by The Westpac Group.

Note: Approval is not guaranteed in line with the maximum offerings available under this policy.

# Lenders mortgage insurance exemption criteria

Eligible employees and contractors will be exempt from Lender's Mortgage Insurance (LMI), where the below LMI exemption criteria are met.

Credit is subject to the Bank's normal lending criteria.

|Feature|LMI exemption criteria|
|---|---|
|Employee|Must be employed within Westpac Group or its subsidiaries for a minimum of 1 month. Contract or temporary staff who do not have an ‘F’ or ‘M’ salary id are ineligible|
|Applicants|All must be a personal customer, reside in Australia and be Australian residents. Not available to company and trust account holders. (Including individuals as trustee for trust)|
|Income / Employment|All income must be received in AUD. A lower LVR threshold applies when foreign income is used. Refer to Loan to Value Ratio (LVR) > LVR by borrower type and income source.|
|LVR|>80 - 90% LVR|

Any lower LVR threshold policies will override this policy including prestige property limits – refer to Loan to Value Ratio (LVR) policy.

|Eligible Products|Eligible repayment method|
|---|---|
|Rocket Repay Home Loan|PIF|
|Rocket Repay Investment Loan|PIF or IO|
|Fixed Options Home Loan|PIF|
|Flexi First Option Home Loan|PIF|
|Flexi First Option Investment Loan|PIF or IO|
|Fixed Rate Investment Property Loan|PIF or IO|

PIF = Principle, Interest and Fee repayments, IO = Interest Only repayment loan converting to Principle, Interest and Fee repayments

# Process to follow

# How to instruction

Enter a comment in ApplyOnline noting application submission under the ‘Employee (Staff) and Contractor Home Loan’ policy. When entering the employment details of the staff member, you must capture the Employee ID to allow benefits to apply.

# Change History

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|1|2 July 2023|First OBP issue online for Brokers|
|2|8 October 2023|Added to “Lenders mortgage insurance exemption criteria”. Not available to company and trust account holders.|

Comment on this policy

Comment on this policy

Link to the policy

Rate this policy

Published Date: 08/10/20

Link to the policy