WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

Home | View Westpac Consumer Mortgages OBP Credit Policies | Contact Us

# 03.31 Lenders Mortgage Insurance

This policy contains commercially sensitive and confidential information. No part should be made available in any form whether printed, electronic or otherwise, outside the Westpac Group without approval from Westpac Legal or Regulatory affairs. This document is an UNCONTROLLED copy and is subject to change without prior notification. It is only valid at the date of extract.

# Table of Contents

- 1. About this policy
- 1.1 Why this policy
- 2. Rules you must apply
- 2.1 Current and historical mortgage Insurers
- 2.2 Lenders Mortgage Insurance Premium
- 2.3 Lenders mortgage insurance approval
- 2.4 Existing insured loans - Variations and Top Up premiums
- 2.5 Requests for premium refunds
- 2.5.1 Refund Rates-Loans repaid in full
- 2.6 Premium rates and stamp duty
- 2.6.1 Premium Rates
- 2.6.2 Stamp Duty

# About this policy

# 1.1 Why this policy

Purpose

Lender’s mortgage insurance:

- protects the Bank against loss in the event the borrower defaults which results in the sale of the security property, and there is a shortfall in the sale proceeds to cover the debt owing to the Bank.
- does not provide any protection for the borrower
- is required when the loan to security value ratio (LVR) exceeds the Non-MI maximum lending value ratio. Refer Loan to Value Ratio (LVR)

Applicable to

Consumer mortgage applications for new loan

Link to original document

loan increase variations to an existing mortgage insured loan where the mortgage insurer’s risk is increased or amended

For construction loans, commences from the date of the first draw down (i.e. settlement for land) or the date of the initial loan establishment and / or drawdown and where payment of the LMI Premium is received.

Lender’s mortgage insurance cover

Will be for 100% of the principal, interest, legal and selling costs

For all loans, LMI cover is valid for the duration of the loan contract or the expiration of the loan term (i.e. residential principal and interest loans, or residential Combination Loans) unless a variation to the contract’s terms and conditions are agreed to, which may necessitate an additional premium being payable.

For Bridging loans the period of cover applies for the Bridging period and will continue on the end debt situation if LMI cover is still required.

# Rules you must apply

# Current and historical mortgage insurers

|Feature|Insurer|
|---|---|
|For loans written on or after 01/09/2021|ALMI|
|For loans written before 01/09/2021:|Refer below|
|Equal to or less than 90% LVR 1|WLMI|
|For loans written on or after 18/5/15|WLMI|
|For loans written between 12/11/12 and 17/5/15|QBE (Legacy LMI provider)|
|Greater than 90% LVR1| |
|For loans written prior to 12/11/12|Helia (formerly Genworth Financial) (Legacy LMI provider)|

Also refer to ‘Existing insured loans – Variations and Top Up premiums'

Link to more information

# WBC Mortgage Broking LMI Policy

1. Capitalised LVR is used when the premium has been capitalised

2. SGB, BoM, BSA, and RAMS are considered to be external providers

# 2.2 Lenders Mortgage Insurance Premium

|Premium payable|A once-only premium is payable by the customer, except where a Variation or Top Up to an existing mortgaged insured loan requires a new or additional premium to be paid. Customers have the option to capitalise the LMI premium on top of the base loan amount.|
|---|---|
|Premium refund|Refer to Premium Refunds|

# 2.3 Lenders mortgage insurance approval

An LMI policy, approval, or In Principle Approval (IPA) should not be issued until applicants have met acceptable minimum credit standards. Final approval is subject to the satisfactory completion of all verification activities required of the Broker, Assessor, and the Mortgage Centre / Verification Teams. A consumer mortgage application meeting LMI lending value ratio is not an indication of approval.

ALMI will underwrite mortgage insurance up to the following:

ALMI Underwriting Standards
$2,500,000 mortgage insured exposure to a single borrower across the Westpac Group. $2,500,000 at an LVR of up to 95% in a single loan including capitalizing of the LMI premium. ALMI has its own set of acceptance criteria ‘ALMI Underwriting Policy’, based on the level of risk it is prepared to undertake. This criteria may vary from the Bank’s credit policy for acceptable risk.

Credit Rules - Loan amount and LVR: All Credit rules utilize the base loan amount and the base LVR, with the exception of serviceability assessments where repayments are based on the capitalized loan amount.

LMI approval and authorities: ALMI operates a Delegated Underwriting Authority (DUA) in conjunction with authorized Credit employees, whereby Credit may issue LMI policies on behalf of ALMI, provided that certain criteria are met.

Approval criteria are detailed within Consumer Credit Policy and the Credit Risk Policies.

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

LMI may be approved eiper:
wipin LMI open policy (DUA1) by auporised WBC employees
outside open policy:
Applications referred outside pe open policy should have a basis for consideration given higher LVR by auporised LMI DUA Holders (DUA2): Lenders / Assessors need to provide mitigating factors, such as financial position, stability, income / servicing, existing customer history and / or security to warrant cover at pe level sought
by ALMI underwriters (DUA4), for loan applications outside of bop open policy parameters and DUA2 approval levels
Credit must assess pe credit worpiness of pe application and if pey consider pe application worpwhile, recommend pe loan to ALMI underwriters (DUA4) for consideration and approval.

Genuine savings, 10% equity, Customer contribution

New loans and loan increases requiring LMI must comply with the policy detailed under Genuine Savings, Equity and Customer Contribution.

Duty of disclosure

Duty of disclosure is owed to the insurer under the Insurance Contracts Act.

It requires disclosure to the mortgage insurer of all matters known, or that could reasonably be expected to have been known, that are relevant to the Insurer’s decision as to whether to accept the risk of the Insurance, and if so, on what terms.

This duty also extends to any subsequent renewal, variance or reinstatement of the LMI contract.

Failure to comply with the duty of disclosure, may entitle the insurer to reduce its liability under the LMI contract in respect of a claim and or to cancel the contract.

If the non-disclosure is dishonest (made knowingly), the insurer

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000725

WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Scenario|Action|LMI waiver - Legacy LMI providers 'QBE and Helia (formerly Genworth)'|
|---|---|---|
|For:|Whenever the mortgage insurer's risk is increased or amended, the mortgage insurer will be notified by the responsible processing area|Where Lender's Mortgage Insurance is required and the existing policy cover is held with QBE or Helia (formerly Genworth): OBP will waive Lender's Mortgage Insurance up to the MI-Max base LVR applicable under 'Loan to Value Ratio (LVR)' policy for any of the below scenarios: Loan increase to the existing insured loan An internal refinance of the existing mortgaged insured loan A new application using security collateral already covered by the existing mortgage insurance policy Applications with this waiver applied are assessed to non-LMI standards|
|Prior to the Bank notifying approval to the customer, the mortgage insurer is to approve the variation and use of the existing policy|The change will generally be applied to the existing policy and insurer Where additional LMI is required, the premium will be calculated by using the new total exposure amount and LVR Policy, and taking into consideration any previous premiums paid by the customer (premium credits). Exceptions apply for 'Legacy LMI providers 'QBE and Helia (formerly Genworth)' as detailed in the next column|It is not permissible to have multiple insurers with an interest in the same property. A restructure of a new mortgage insured application is required when: an existing security collateral offered is already covered by an existing ALMI or WLMI|

Reference: Link to the source

# WBC Mortgage Broking OBP Policy

|Scenario|Action|
|---|---|
|LMI waiver - Legacy LMI providers 'QBE and Helia (formerly Genworth)'|mortgage insurance policy, and another existing security collateral offered is already covered by an existing QBE or Helia (formerly Genworth) mortgage insurance policy|

1 For WBC: SGB, BoM, BSA and RAMS are considered to be external providers

2.5 Requests for premium refunds

Cancellation of the policy and appropriate premium refund will be requested only where the below conditions are met. The refund process will commence automatically, once the Bank notifies the Mortgage Insurer that the loan has been paid in full and the mortgage discharged. The decision to refund a premium is at the discretion of the Insurer. The Bank makes no decision about whether or not a refund is due.

|Scenario|Conditions|
|---|---|
|The loan has been paid and discharged in full, and Within the first two years of the policy commencement, and The loan has not been reported to have arrears, and The loan is not in Collections, and|For proposals which proceed The loan is not subject to a claim, and There are no additional loans still outstanding covered under the original LMI policy, and Where the insurer is QBE or Helia (formerly Genworth), the amount payable is not less than $500, or Where the insurer is WLMI, WLMI-A or ALMI, the amount payable is not less than $400|

For proposals which do not proceed
If the proposal does not proceed for any reason and the premium has already been paid

2.5.1 Refund Rates - Loans Repaid in Full

https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000725 6/10

|Base LVR Bands|$0 - $300,000|>$300,000 - $500,000|>$500,000 - $750,000|>$750,000 - $1M|>$1M - $1.5M|>$1.5M - $2M|>$2M|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Up to 75%|0.27|0.39|0.49|0.49|0.58|0.66|0.75|
|>75 - 76%|0.34|0.41|0.59|0.60|0.65|0.68|0.72|
|>76 - 78%|0.34|0.45|0.59|0.68|0.68|0.69|0.72|
|>78 - 80%|0.46|0.54|0.75|0.80|0.90|0.91|0.92|
|>80 - 81%|0.60|0.600|0.74|0.74|0.93|0.93|0.93|
|>81 - 82%|0.61|0.61|0.74|0.74|0.93|0.93|0.93|
|>82 - 83%|0.80|0.85|0.97|0.97|1.24|1.24|1.24|
|>83 - 84%|0.80|0.88|1.02|1.02|1.30|1.30|1.30|
|>84 - 85%|0.81|1.08|1.18|1.18|1.52|1.52|1.52|
|>85 - 86%|0.84|1.11|1.26|1.26|1.58|1.58|1.58|
|>86 - 87%|1.18|1.22|1.45|1.45|1.81|1.81|1.81|

|Base LVR Bands|$0 - $300,000|>$300,000 - $500,000|>$500,000 - $750,000|>$750,000 - $1M|>$1M - $1.5M|>$1.5M - $2M|>$2M|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|>87 - 88%|1.20|1.28|1.58|1.58|1.86|1.91|1.97|
|>88 - 89%|1.24|1.60|2.00|2.00|2.34|2.34|2.34|
|>89 - 90%|1.68|1.80|2.41|2.41|2.66|2.68|2.80|
|>90 - 91%|1.94|2.38|3.38|3.38|3.52|3.84|4.06|
|>91 - 92%|1.94|2.55|3.51|3.52|3.65|4.03|4.06|
|>92 - 93%|2.28|2.74|3.66|3.66|3.91|4.16|4.33|
|>93 - 94%|2.32|2.76|3.81|3.82|3.98|4.23|4.43|
|>94 - 95%|2.55|3.12|4.00|4.03|4.17|4.55|4.78|

|State|NSW|VIC|QLD|SA|WA|TAS|ACT|NT|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Amount|0.0%|10.0%|9.0%|11.0%|10.0%|10.0%|0.0%|10.0%|

|Amendment number|Issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|1|3 November 2021|First OBP issue online for Brokers on the OKA platform.|
|2|10 November 2021|Links updated|
|3|22 May 2022|Change 1 Updated section 2.4 Duty of disclosure|

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|4|21 August 2022|Impacted section 3.2 Premium Rates – WBC Changes made to premium rates and bands.|
|5|2 October 2022|Updated sections: - 'Stamp Duty': - Added words in bold 'Stamp Duty is applicable as a percentage of the premium amount. This is calculated by the LMI Premium Calculators.
- 'Mortgage Insurers': - Identified Genworth Financial and QBE as 'Legacy LMI provider'
- Replaced instructions relating to Top Up and variations with a reference link to the updated section 'Existing insured loans - Variations and Top Up premiums'
- 'Variations to loans': - Renamed section 'Existing insured loans - Variations and Top Up premiums'
- Replaced existing content within a table detailing the scenarios and action required (clarification only)
- Added the below new rules regarding LMI waiver for legacy LMI providers QBE and Genworth:
'Where Lender’s Mortgage Insurance is required and the existing policy cover is held with QBE or Genworth: - OBP will waive Lender’s Mortgage Insurance up to the MI-Max base LVR applicable under 'Loan to Value Ratio (LVR)' policy for any of the below scenarios: - Loan increase to the existing insured loan
- An internal refinance of the existing mortgaged insured loan
- A new application using security collateral already covered by the existing mortgage insurance policy
Applications with this waiver applied are assessed to non-LMI standards|

Source: https://creditriskpolicies.westpac.com.au/app/answers/answer_view/a_id/1000725

|Amendment number|Amendment issue date|Description of changes|
|---|---|---|
|6|26 March 2023|Update to show Company Name change for Mortgage Insurance Provider Genworth to Helia|
|7|21 May 2023|Re-format and re-wording of policy to improve clarity (with no change to policy)|

Comment on this policy

Comment on this policy

Rate this policy

Published Date: 21/05/2023

Link to the policy details